# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 03, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google App Engine](/incident/appengine/15020)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google App Engine Incident #15020

Google App Engine Search API errors and latency

Incident began at **2015-08-12 11:05** and ended at **2015-08-12 11:46** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Aug 13, 2015 | 16:30 |

SUMMARY:

On Wednesday, 12 August 2015, the Search API for Google App Engine experienced
increased latency and errors for 40 minutes. We apologize for this incident
and the effect it had on applications using the Search API. We strive for
excellent performance and uptime, so we will take appropriate actions right
away to improve the Search API’s availability.

If you believe your paid application experienced an SLA violation as a result
of this incident, please contact us at:
<https://support.google.com/cloud/answer/3420056>

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Wednesday, 12 August 2015 from 11:05am to 11:45am PDT, the Search API
service experienced an increase in latency and error rate. 8.7% of
applications using the Search API received a 7.5% error rate with messages
like: “Timeout: Failed to complete request in NNNNms”

ROOT CAUSE:

A set of queries sent to a Google-owned service running on App Engine caused
the Search API service to fail.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

At 10:28, Google engineers were automatically alerted to increasing latency in
the Search API backend, but at this point, customers were not impacted. At
11:05, the increasing latency started causing Search API timeouts. Once the
cause of the latency increase was discovered, the relevant user was isolated
from other customers, ending the incident at 11:45.

The Search API team is implementing mitigation and monitoring changes as a
result of this incident, which include changes to the API backend to isolate
the impact of similar issues and improved monitoring to reduce the time taken
to detect and isolate problematic workloads for the Search API.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

On Wednesday, 12 August 2015, the Search API for Google App Engine experienced
increased latency and errors for 40 minutes. We apologize for this incident
and the effect it had on applications using the Search API. We strive for
excellent performance and uptime, so we will take appropriate actions right
away to improve the Search API’s availability.

If you believe your paid application experienced an SLA violation as a result
of this incident, please contact us at:
<https://support.google.com/cloud/answer/3420056>

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Wednesday, 12 August 2015 from 11:05am to 11:45am PDT, the Search API
service experienced an increase in latency and error rate. 8.7% of
applications using the Search API received a 7.5% error rate with messages
like: “Timeout: Failed to complete request in NNNNms”

ROOT CAUSE:

A set of queries sent to a Google-owned service running on App Engine caused
the Search API service to fail.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

At 10:28, Google engineers were automatically alerted to increasing latency in
the Search API backend, but at this point, customers were not impacted. At
11:05, the increasing latency started causing Search API timeouts. Once the
cause of the latency increase was discovered, the relevant user was isolated
from other customers, ending the incident at 11:45.

The Search API team is implementing mitigation and monitoring changes as a
result of this incident, which include changes to the API backend to isolate
the impact of similar issues and improved monitoring to reduce the time taken
to detect and isolate problematic workloads for the Search API.  
  
| Aug 12, 2015 | 12:50 |

The issue with App Engine Search API should be resolved for all affected apps
as of 11:46 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this
issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize
future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this incident
once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
|

The issue with App Engine Search API should be resolved for all affected apps
as of 11:46 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this
issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize
future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this incident
once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
| Aug 12, 2015 | 12:12 |

The issue with App Engine Search API Timeouts should be resolved as of 12:00
US/Pacific. Our internal investigation is in progress and at this point cannot
be certain that the issue cannot re-occur. We will post a further update by
13:00 as we work towards declaring the incident fully over.  
  
|

The issue with App Engine Search API Timeouts should be resolved as of 12:00
US/Pacific. Our internal investigation is in progress and at this point cannot
be certain that the issue cannot re-occur. We will post a further update by
13:00 as we work towards declaring the incident fully over.  
  
| Aug 12, 2015 | 12:00 |

We are experiencing an issue with App Engine Search API requests timing out
beginning at Wednesday, 2015-08-12 11:05 US/Pacific. You may see requests
timing out or returning successfully with increased latency.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be
experiencing. We will provide an update by 13:00 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with App Engine Search API requests timing out
beginning at Wednesday, 2015-08-12 11:05 US/Pacific. You may see requests
timing out or returning successfully with increased latency.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be
experiencing. We will provide an update by 13:00 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Aug 12, 2015 | 11:48 |

We are investigating reports of an issue with Google App Engine Datastore. We
will provide more information by 12:00 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating reports of an issue with Google App Engine Datastore. We
will provide more information by 12:00 US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

