# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 22, 2019  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google App Engine](/incident/appengine/18003)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google App Engine Incident #18003

App Engine seeing elevated error rates

Incident began at **2018-02-15 11:42** and ended at **2018-02-15 12:44** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Feb 22, 2018 | 07:13 |

On Thursday 15 February 2018, specific Google Cloud Platform services
experienced elevated errors and latency for a period of 62 minutes from 11:42
to 12:44 PST. The following services were impacted:

Cloud Datastore experienced a 4% error rate for get calls and an 88% error
rate for put calls.

App Engine's serving infrastructure, which is responsible for routing requests
to instances, experienced a 45% error rate, most of which were timeouts.

App Engine Task Queues would not accept new transactional tasks, and also
would not accept new tasks in regions outside us-central1 and europe-west1.
Tasks continued to be dispatched during the event but saw start delays of 0-30
minutes; additionally, a fraction of tasks executed with errors due to the
aforementioned Cloud Datastore and App Engine performance issues.

App Engine Memcache calls experienced a 5% error rate.

App Engine Admin API write calls failed during the incident, causing
unsuccessful application deployments. App Engine Admin API read calls
experienced a 13% error rate.

App Engine Search API index writes failed during the incident though search
queries did not experience elevated errors.

Stackdriver Logging experienced delays exporting logs to systems including
Cloud Console Logs Viewer, BigQuery and Cloud Pub/Sub. Stackdriver Logging
retries on failure so no logs were lost during the incident. Logs-based
Metrics failed to post some points during the incident.

We apologize for the impact of this outage on your application or service. For
Google Cloud Platform customers who rely on the products which were part of
this event, the impact was substantial and we recognize that it caused
significant disruption for those customers. We are conducting a detailed post-
mortem to ensure that all the root and contributing causes of this event are
understood and addressed promptly.  
  
|

On Thursday 15 February 2018, specific Google Cloud Platform services
experienced elevated errors and latency for a period of 62 minutes from 11:42
to 12:44 PST. The following services were impacted:

Cloud Datastore experienced a 4% error rate for get calls and an 88% error
rate for put calls.

App Engine's serving infrastructure, which is responsible for routing requests
to instances, experienced a 45% error rate, most of which were timeouts.

App Engine Task Queues would not accept new transactional tasks, and also
would not accept new tasks in regions outside us-central1 and europe-west1.
Tasks continued to be dispatched during the event but saw start delays of 0-30
minutes; additionally, a fraction of tasks executed with errors due to the
aforementioned Cloud Datastore and App Engine performance issues.

App Engine Memcache calls experienced a 5% error rate.

App Engine Admin API write calls failed during the incident, causing
unsuccessful application deployments. App Engine Admin API read calls
experienced a 13% error rate.

App Engine Search API index writes failed during the incident though search
queries did not experience elevated errors.

Stackdriver Logging experienced delays exporting logs to systems including
Cloud Console Logs Viewer, BigQuery and Cloud Pub/Sub. Stackdriver Logging
retries on failure so no logs were lost during the incident. Logs-based
Metrics failed to post some points during the incident.

We apologize for the impact of this outage on your application or service. For
Google Cloud Platform customers who rely on the products which were part of
this event, the impact was substantial and we recognize that it caused
significant disruption for those customers. We are conducting a detailed post-
mortem to ensure that all the root and contributing causes of this event are
understood and addressed promptly.  
  
| Feb 15, 2018 | 14:03 |

The issue with App Engine has been resolved for all affected projects as of
12:44 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and
make appropriate improvements to our systems to help prevent or minimize
future recurrence.

We will provide a more detailed analysis of this incident once we have
completed our internal investigation.  
  
|

The issue with App Engine has been resolved for all affected projects as of
12:44 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and
make appropriate improvements to our systems to help prevent or minimize
future recurrence.

We will provide a more detailed analysis of this incident once we have
completed our internal investigation.  
  
| Feb 15, 2018 | 13:04 |

We're seeing widespread improvement in error rates in many / most regions
since ~12:40 PST. We're continuing to investigate and will provide another
update by 13:30 PST.  
  
|

We're seeing widespread improvement in error rates in many / most regions
since ~12:40 PST. We're continuing to investigate and will provide another
update by 13:30 PST.  
  
| Feb 15, 2018 | 12:41 |

We are investigating an issue with App Engine. We will provide more
information by 13:00 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating an issue with App Engine. We will provide more
information by 13:00 US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

