# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

November 08, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google App Engine](/incident/appengine/17007)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google App Engine Incident #17007

The Memcache service has recovered from a disruption between 12:30 US/Pacific
and 15:30 US/Pacific.

Incident began at **2017-11-06 12:33** and ended at **2017-11-06 14:23** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Nov 07, 2017 | 10:59 |

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Monday 6 November 2017, the App Engine Memcache service experienced
unavailability for applications in all regions for 1 hour and 50 minutes.

We sincerely apologize for the impact of this incident on your application or
service. We recognize the severity of this incident and will be undertaking a
detailed review to fully understand the ways in which we must change our
systems to prevent a recurrence.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Monday 6 November 2017 from 12:33 to 14:23 PST, the App Engine Memcache
service experienced unavailability for applications in all regions.

Some customers experienced elevated Datastore latency and errors while
Memcache was unavailable. At this time, we believe that all the Datastore
issues were caused by surges of Datastore activity due to Memcache being
unavailable. When Memcache failed, if an application sent a surge of Datastore
operations to specific entities or key ranges, then Datastore may have
experienced contention or hotspotting, as described in
<https://cloud.google.com/datastore/docs/best-practices#designing_for_scale.>
Datastore experienced elevated load on its servers when the outage ended due
to a surge in traffic. Some applications in the US experienced elevated
latency on gets between 14:23 and 14:31, and elevated latency on puts between
14:23 and 15:04.

Customers running Managed VMs experienced failures of all HTTP requests and
App Engine API calls during this incident. Customers using App Engine Flexible
Environment, which is the successor to Managed VMs, were not impacted.

ROOT CAUSE

The App Engine Memcache service requires a globally consistent view of the
current serving datacenter for each application in order to guarantee strong
consistency when traffic fails over to alternate datacenters. The
configuration which maps applications to datacenters is stored in a global
database.

The incident occurred when the specific database entity that holds the
configuration became unavailable for both reads and writes following a
configuration update. App Engine Memcache is designed in such a way that the
configuration is considered invalid if it cannot be refreshed within 20
seconds. When the configuration could not be fetched by clients, Memcache
became unavailable.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google received an automated alert at 12:34. Following normal practices, our
engineers immediately looked for recent changes that may have triggered the
incident. At 12:59, we attempted to revert the latest change to the
configuration file. This configuration rollback required an update to the
configuration in the global database, which also failed. At 14:21, engineers
were able to update the configuration by sending an update request with a
sufficiently long deadline. This caused all replicas of the database to
synchronize and allowed clients to read the mapping configuration.

As a temporary mitigation, we have reduced the number of readers of the global
configuration, which avoids the contention during write and led to the
unavailability during the incident. Engineering projects are already under way
to regionalize this configuration and thereby limit the blast radius of
similar failure patterns in the future.  
  
|

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Monday 6 November 2017, the App Engine Memcache service experienced
unavailability for applications in all regions for 1 hour and 50 minutes.

We sincerely apologize for the impact of this incident on your application or
service. We recognize the severity of this incident and will be undertaking a
detailed review to fully understand the ways in which we must change our
systems to prevent a recurrence.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Monday 6 November 2017 from 12:33 to 14:23 PST, the App Engine Memcache
service experienced unavailability for applications in all regions.

Some customers experienced elevated Datastore latency and errors while
Memcache was unavailable. At this time, we believe that all the Datastore
issues were caused by surges of Datastore activity due to Memcache being
unavailable. When Memcache failed, if an application sent a surge of Datastore
operations to specific entities or key ranges, then Datastore may have
experienced contention or hotspotting, as described in
<https://cloud.google.com/datastore/docs/best-practices#designing_for_scale.>
Datastore experienced elevated load on its servers when the outage ended due
to a surge in traffic. Some applications in the US experienced elevated
latency on gets between 14:23 and 14:31, and elevated latency on puts between
14:23 and 15:04.

Customers running Managed VMs experienced failures of all HTTP requests and
App Engine API calls during this incident. Customers using App Engine Flexible
Environment, which is the successor to Managed VMs, were not impacted.

ROOT CAUSE

The App Engine Memcache service requires a globally consistent view of the
current serving datacenter for each application in order to guarantee strong
consistency when traffic fails over to alternate datacenters. The
configuration which maps applications to datacenters is stored in a global
database.

The incident occurred when the specific database entity that holds the
configuration became unavailable for both reads and writes following a
configuration update. App Engine Memcache is designed in such a way that the
configuration is considered invalid if it cannot be refreshed within 20
seconds. When the configuration could not be fetched by clients, Memcache
became unavailable.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google received an automated alert at 12:34. Following normal practices, our
engineers immediately looked for recent changes that may have triggered the
incident. At 12:59, we attempted to revert the latest change to the
configuration file. This configuration rollback required an update to the
configuration in the global database, which also failed. At 14:21, engineers
were able to update the configuration by sending an update request with a
sufficiently long deadline. This caused all replicas of the database to
synchronize and allowed clients to read the mapping configuration.

As a temporary mitigation, we have reduced the number of readers of the global
configuration, which avoids the contention during write and led to the
unavailability during the incident. Engineering projects are already under way
to regionalize this configuration and thereby limit the blast radius of
similar failure patterns in the future.  
  
| Nov 06, 2017 | 15:55 |

The issue with Memcache availability has been resolved for all affected
projects as of 15:30 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of
this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to help prevent or
minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this
incident once we have completed our internal investigation.

This is the final update for this incident.  
  
|

The issue with Memcache availability has been resolved for all affected
projects as of 15:30 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of
this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to help prevent or
minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this
incident once we have completed our internal investigation.

This is the final update for this incident.  
  
| Nov 06, 2017 | 15:26 |

The Memcache service is still recovering from the outage. The rate of errors
continues to decrease and we expect a full resolution of this incident in the
near future.

We will provide an update by 16:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

The Memcache service is still recovering from the outage. The rate of errors
continues to decrease and we expect a full resolution of this incident in the
near future.

We will provide an update by 16:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Nov 06, 2017 | 15:08 |

The issue with Memcache and MVM availability should be resolved for the
majority of projects and we expect a full resolution in the near future.

We will provide an update by 15:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

The issue with Memcache and MVM availability should be resolved for the
majority of projects and we expect a full resolution in the near future.

We will provide an update by 15:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Nov 06, 2017 | 14:44 |

We are experiencing an issue with Memcache availability beginning at November
6, 2017 at 12:30 pm US/Pacific. At this time we are gradually ramping up
traffic to Memcache and we see that the rate of errors is decreasing. Other
services affected by the outage, such as MVM instances, should be normalizing
in the near future.

We will provide an update by 15:15 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with Memcache availability beginning at November
6, 2017 at 12:30 pm US/Pacific. At this time we are gradually ramping up
traffic to Memcache and we see that the rate of errors is decreasing. Other
services affected by the outage, such as MVM instances, should be normalizing
in the near future.

We will provide an update by 15:15 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Nov 06, 2017 | 14:31 |

We are experiencing an issue with Memcache availability beginning at November
6, 2017 at 12:30 pm US/Pacific. Our Engineering Team believes they have
identified the root cause of the errors and is working to mitigate.

We will provide an update by 15:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with Memcache availability beginning at November
6, 2017 at 12:30 pm US/Pacific. Our Engineering Team believes they have
identified the root cause of the errors and is working to mitigate.

We will provide an update by 15:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Nov 06, 2017 | 13:57 |

We are experiencing an issue with Memcache availability beginning at November
6, 2017 at 12:30 pm US/Pacific. Current data indicates that all projects using
Memcache are affected by this issue. For everyone who is affected, we
apologize for any inconvenience you may be experiencing.

We will provide an update by 14:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with Memcache availability beginning at November
6, 2017 at 12:30 pm US/Pacific. Current data indicates that all projects using
Memcache are affected by this issue. For everyone who is affected, we
apologize for any inconvenience you may be experiencing.

We will provide an update by 14:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Nov 06, 2017 | 13:31 |

We are experiencing an issue with Memcache availability beginning at November
6, 2017 at 12:30 pm US/Pacific. Current data indicate(s) that all projects
using Memcache are affected by this issue. For everyone who is affected, we
apologize for any inconvenience you may be experiencing.

We will provide an update by 14:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with Memcache availability beginning at November
6, 2017 at 12:30 pm US/Pacific. Current data indicate(s) that all projects
using Memcache are affected by this issue. For everyone who is affected, we
apologize for any inconvenience you may be experiencing.

We will provide an update by 14:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Nov 06, 2017 | 13:11 |

We are investigating an issue with Google App Engine and Memcache. We will
provide more information by 13:30 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating an issue with Google App Engine and Memcache. We will
provide more information by 13:30 US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

