# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 03, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google App Engine](/incident/appengine/15025)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google App Engine Incident #15025

Authentication issues with App Engine

Incident began at **2015-12-07 22:00** and ended at **2015-12-08 13:25** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Dec 16, 2015 | 07:40 |

SUMMARY:

On Monday 7 December 2015, 1.29% of Google App Engine applications received
errors when issuing authenticated calls to Google APIs over a period of 17
hours and 3 minutes. During a 45-minute period, authenticated calls to Google
APIs from outside of App Engine also received errors, with the error rate
peaking at 12%. We apologise for the impact of this issue on you and your
service. We consider service degradation of this level and duration to be very
serious and we are planning many changes to prevent this occurring again in
the future.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

Between Monday 7 December 2015 20:09 PST and Tuesday 8 December 2015 13:12,
1.29% of Google App Engine applications using service accounts received error
401 "Access Denied" for all requests to Google APIs requiring authentication.
Unauthenticated API calls were not affected. Different applications
experienced impact at different times, with few applications being affected
for the full duration of the incident.

In addition, between 23:05 and 23:50, an average of 7% of all requests to
Google Cloud APIs failed or timed out, peaking briefly at 12%. Outside of this
time only API calls from App Engine were affected.

ROOT CAUSE:

Google engineers have recently carried out a migration of the Google Accounts
system to a new storage backend, which included copying API authentication
service credentials data and redirecting API calls to the new backend.

To complete this migration, credentials were scheduled to be deleted from the
previous storage backend. This process started at 20:09 PST on Monday 7
December 2015. Due to a software bug, the API authentication service continued
to look up some credentials, including those used by Google App Engine service
accounts, in the old storage backend. As these credentials were progressively
deleted, their corresponding service accounts could no longer be
authenticated.

The impact increased as more credentials were deleted and some Google App
Engine applications started to issue a high volume of retry requests. At
23:05, the retry volume exceeded the regional capacity of the API
authentication service, causing 1.3% of all authenticated API calls to fail or
timeout, including Google APIs called from outside Google App Engine. At 23:30
the API authentication service exceeded its global capacity, causing up to 12%
of all authenticated API calls to fail until 23:50, when the overload issue
was resolved.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

At 23:50 PST on Monday 8 December, Google engineers blocked certain
authentication credentials that were known to be failing, preventing retries
on these credentials from overloading the API authentication service.

On Tuesday 9 December 08:52 PST, the deletion process was halted, having
removed 2.3% of credentials, preventing further applications from being
affected. At 10:08, Google engineers identified the root cause for the
misdirected credentials lookup. After thorough testing, a fix was rolled out
globally, resolving the issue for all affected Google App Engine applications
by 13:12.

Google has conducted a far-reaching review of the issue's root causes and
contributory factors, leading to numerous prevention and mitigation actions in
the following areas: — Google engineers have deployed monitoring for
additional infrastructure signals to detect and analyse similar issues more
quickly. — Google engineers have improved internal tools to extend auditing
and logging and automatically advise relevant teams on potentially risky data
operations. — Additional rate limiting and caching features will be added to
the API authentication service, increasing its resilience to load spikes. —
Google’s development guidelines are being reviewed and updated to improve the
handling of service or backend migrations, including a grace period of
disabling access to old data locations before fully decommissioning them.

Our customers rely on us to provide a superior service and we regret we did
not live up to expectations in this case. We apologize again for the
inconvenience this caused you and your users.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

On Monday 7 December 2015, 1.29% of Google App Engine applications received
errors when issuing authenticated calls to Google APIs over a period of 17
hours and 3 minutes. During a 45-minute period, authenticated calls to Google
APIs from outside of App Engine also received errors, with the error rate
peaking at 12%. We apologise for the impact of this issue on you and your
service. We consider service degradation of this level and duration to be very
serious and we are planning many changes to prevent this occurring again in
the future.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

Between Monday 7 December 2015 20:09 PST and Tuesday 8 December 2015 13:12,
1.29% of Google App Engine applications using service accounts received error
401 "Access Denied" for all requests to Google APIs requiring authentication.
Unauthenticated API calls were not affected. Different applications
experienced impact at different times, with few applications being affected
for the full duration of the incident.

In addition, between 23:05 and 23:50, an average of 7% of all requests to
Google Cloud APIs failed or timed out, peaking briefly at 12%. Outside of this
time only API calls from App Engine were affected.

ROOT CAUSE:

Google engineers have recently carried out a migration of the Google Accounts
system to a new storage backend, which included copying API authentication
service credentials data and redirecting API calls to the new backend.

To complete this migration, credentials were scheduled to be deleted from the
previous storage backend. This process started at 20:09 PST on Monday 7
December 2015. Due to a software bug, the API authentication service continued
to look up some credentials, including those used by Google App Engine service
accounts, in the old storage backend. As these credentials were progressively
deleted, their corresponding service accounts could no longer be
authenticated.

The impact increased as more credentials were deleted and some Google App
Engine applications started to issue a high volume of retry requests. At
23:05, the retry volume exceeded the regional capacity of the API
authentication service, causing 1.3% of all authenticated API calls to fail or
timeout, including Google APIs called from outside Google App Engine. At 23:30
the API authentication service exceeded its global capacity, causing up to 12%
of all authenticated API calls to fail until 23:50, when the overload issue
was resolved.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

At 23:50 PST on Monday 8 December, Google engineers blocked certain
authentication credentials that were known to be failing, preventing retries
on these credentials from overloading the API authentication service.

On Tuesday 9 December 08:52 PST, the deletion process was halted, having
removed 2.3% of credentials, preventing further applications from being
affected. At 10:08, Google engineers identified the root cause for the
misdirected credentials lookup. After thorough testing, a fix was rolled out
globally, resolving the issue for all affected Google App Engine applications
by 13:12.

Google has conducted a far-reaching review of the issue's root causes and
contributory factors, leading to numerous prevention and mitigation actions in
the following areas: — Google engineers have deployed monitoring for
additional infrastructure signals to detect and analyse similar issues more
quickly. — Google engineers have improved internal tools to extend auditing
and logging and automatically advise relevant teams on potentially risky data
operations. — Additional rate limiting and caching features will be added to
the API authentication service, increasing its resilience to load spikes. —
Google’s development guidelines are being reviewed and updated to improve the
handling of service or backend migrations, including a grace period of
disabling access to old data locations before fully decommissioning them.

Our customers rely on us to provide a superior service and we regret we did
not live up to expectations in this case. We apologize again for the
inconvenience this caused you and your users.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 13:29 |

The issue with App Engine applications accessing Google APIs should have been
resolved for all affected customers as of 13:15 US/Pacific. We will conduct an
internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our
systems to prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more
detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal
investigation.  
  
|

The issue with App Engine applications accessing Google APIs should have been
resolved for all affected customers as of 13:15 US/Pacific. We will conduct an
internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our
systems to prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more
detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal
investigation.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 12:31 |

We believe the issue is resolved for most customers. A new update will be
provided by 2015-12-08 13:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We believe the issue is resolved for most customers. A new update will be
provided by 2015-12-08 13:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 11:30 |

We’re investigating elevated error rates for some Google Cloud Platform users.
We believe these errors are affecting between 2-5 percent of Google App Engine
(GAE) applications. We are working directly with the customers who are
affected to restore full operation in their application as quickly as
possible, and apologize for any inconvenience. We will provide another status
update by 2015-12-08 12:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We’re investigating elevated error rates for some Google Cloud Platform users.
We believe these errors are affecting between 2-5 percent of Google App Engine
(GAE) applications. We are working directly with the customers who are
affected to restore full operation in their application as quickly as
possible, and apologize for any inconvenience. We will provide another status
update by 2015-12-08 12:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 10:30 |

We are still investigating the issue with App Engine applications accessing
Google APIs. We will provide another status update by 2015-12-08 11:30
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still investigating the issue with App Engine applications accessing
Google APIs. We will provide another status update by 2015-12-08 11:30
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 09:30 |

We are still investigating the issue with App Engine applications accessing
Google APIs. We will provide another status update by 2015-12-08 10:30
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still investigating the issue with App Engine applications accessing
Google APIs. We will provide another status update by 2015-12-08 10:30
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 08:26 |

We are still investigating the issue with App Engine applications accessing
Google APIs. We will provide another status update by 2015-12-08 09:30
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still investigating the issue with App Engine applications accessing
Google APIs. We will provide another status update by 2015-12-08 09:30
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 07:26 |

We are still investigating the issue with App Engine applications accessing
Google APIs. We will provide another status update by 2015-12-08 08:30
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still investigating the issue with App Engine applications accessing
Google APIs. We will provide another status update by 2015-12-08 08:30
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 06:29 |

We are still investigating the issue with App Engine applications accessing
Google APIs. We will provide another status update by 2015-12-08 07:30
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still investigating the issue with App Engine applications accessing
Google APIs. We will provide another status update by 2015-12-08 07:30
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 05:26 |

We are still investigating the issue with App Engine applications accessing
Google APIs. We will provide another status update by 2015-12-08 06:30
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still investigating the issue with App Engine applications accessing
Google APIs. We will provide another status update by 2015-12-08 06:30
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 04:19 |

Despite actions taken to mitigate the problem, a significant number of App
Engine applications have continued to experience errors while accessing Google
APIs. For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may
be experiencing. We will provide an update by 2015-12-08 05:30 US/Pacific with
current details.  
  
|

Despite actions taken to mitigate the problem, a significant number of App
Engine applications have continued to experience errors while accessing Google
APIs. For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may
be experiencing. We will provide an update by 2015-12-08 05:30 US/Pacific with
current details.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 03:20 |

The issue with App Engine applications accessing Google APIs should have been
resolved for the majority of projects and we expect a full resolution in the
near future. We will provide another status update by 08:00 US/Pacific with
current details.  
  
|

The issue with App Engine applications accessing Google APIs should have been
resolved for the majority of projects and we expect a full resolution in the
near future. We will provide another status update by 08:00 US/Pacific with
current details.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 02:19 |

We are experiencing an issue with App Engine applications accessing Google
APIs beginning at Monday, 2015-12-07 22:00 US/Pacific. Affected APIs may
return a "401 Invalid Credentials" error message. For everyone who is
affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be experiencing. We will
provide an update by 2015-12-08 03:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with App Engine applications accessing Google
APIs beginning at Monday, 2015-12-07 22:00 US/Pacific. Affected APIs may
return a "401 Invalid Credentials" error message. For everyone who is
affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be experiencing. We will
provide an update by 2015-12-08 03:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 01:19 |

We are experiencing an issue with App Engine applications accessing Google
APIs beginning at Monday, 2015-12-07 22:00 US/Pacific. Affected APIs may
return a "401 Invalid Credentials" error message. For everyone who is
affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be experiencing. We will
provide an update by 2015-12-08 02:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with App Engine applications accessing Google
APIs beginning at Monday, 2015-12-07 22:00 US/Pacific. Affected APIs may
return a "401 Invalid Credentials" error message. For everyone who is
affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be experiencing. We will
provide an update by 2015-12-08 02:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 00:23 |

We are experiencing an issue with App Engine applications accessing Google
APIs beginning at Monday, 2015-12-07 22:00 US/Pacific. Affected APIs may
return a "401 Invalid Credentials" error message. For everyone who is
affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be experiencing. We will
provide an update by 2015-12-08 01:20 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with App Engine applications accessing Google
APIs beginning at Monday, 2015-12-07 22:00 US/Pacific. Affected APIs may
return a "401 Invalid Credentials" error message. For everyone who is
affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be experiencing. We will
provide an update by 2015-12-08 01:20 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Dec 07, 2015 | 23:55 |

"We are experiencing an issue with App Engine applications accessing Google
APIs beginning at Monday, 2015-12-07 22:00 US/Pacific. Affected APIs may
return a "401 Invalid Credentials" error message. For everyone who is
affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be experiencing. We will
provide an update by 2015-12-08 00:20 US/Pacific with current details."  
  
|

"We are experiencing an issue with App Engine applications accessing Google
APIs beginning at Monday, 2015-12-07 22:00 US/Pacific. Affected APIs may
return a "401 Invalid Credentials" error message. For everyone who is
affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be experiencing. We will
provide an update by 2015-12-08 00:20 US/Pacific with current details."  
  
| Dec 07, 2015 | 23:39 |

We are investigating reports of an issue with App Engine applications
accessing Google APIs. We will provide more information by 23:50 US/Pacific.
Affected APIs may return a "401 Invalid Credentials" error message.  
  
|

We are investigating reports of an issue with App Engine applications
accessing Google APIs. We will provide more information by 23:50 US/Pacific.
Affected APIs may return a "401 Invalid Credentials" error message.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

