# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

January 08, 2020  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google App Engine](/incident/appengine/19001)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google App Engine Incident #19001

We are currently investigating an issue with Google App Engine app creation,
Cloud Function deployments, and Project Creation in Cloud Console.

Incident began at **2019-01-02 14:40** and ended at **2019-01-02 18:20** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Jan 07, 2019 | 17:25 |

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Wednesday 2 January, 2019, application creation in Google App Engine (App
Engine), first-time deployment of Google Cloud Functions (Cloud Functions) per
region, and project creation & API management in Cloud Console experienced
elevated error rates ranging from 71% to 100% for a duration of 3 hours, 40
minutes starting at 14:40 PST. Workloads already running on App Engine and
Cloud Functions, including deployment of new versions of applications and
functions, as well as ongoing use of existing projects and activated APIs,
were not impacted.

We know that many customers depend on the ability to create new Cloud
projects, applications & functions, and apologize for our failure to provide
this to you during this time. The root cause of the incident is fully
understood and engineering efforts are underway to ensure the issue is not at
risk of recurrence.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Wednesday 2 January, 2019 from 14:40 PST to 18:20 PST, application creation
in App Engine, first-time deployments of Cloud Functions, and project creation
& API auto-enablement in Cloud Console experienced elevated error rates in all
regions due to a recently deployed configuration update to the underlying
control plane for all impacted services.

First-time deployments of new Cloud Functions failed. Redeploying existing
deployments of Cloud Functions were not impacted. Workloads on already
deployed Cloud Functions were not impacted.

App Engine app creation experienced an error rate of 98%. Workloads for
deployed App Engine applications were not impacted.

Cloud API enable requests experienced a 97% average error rate while disable
requests had a 71% average error rate. Affected users observed these errors
when attempting to enable an API via the Cloud Console and API Console.

ROOT CAUSE

The control plane responsible for managing new app creations in App Engine,
new function deployments in Cloud Functions, project creation & API management
in Cloud Console utilizes a metadata store. This metadata store is responsible
for persisting and processing new project creations, function deployments, App
Engine applications, and API enablements.

Google engineers began rolling out a new feature designed to improve the
fault-tolerance of the metadata store. The rollout had been successful in test
environments, but triggered an issue in production due to an unexpected
difference in configuration, which triggered a bug. The bug caused writes to
the metadata store to fail.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google engineers were automatically alerted of the elevated error rate within
3 minutes of the incident start and immediately began their investigation.

At 15:17, an issue with our metadata store was identified as the root cause,
and mitigation work began. An initial mitigation was applied, but automation
intentionally slowed the rollout of this mitigation to minimize risks to
production. To reduce time to resolution, Google engineers developed and
implemented a new mitigation. The metadata store became fully available at
18:20.

To prevent a recurrence, we will implement additional validation to the
metadata store’s schemas and ensure that test validation of metadata store
configuration matches production.

To improve time to resolution for such issues, we are increasing the
robustness of our emergency rollback procedures for the metadata store, and
creating engineering runbooks for such scenarios.  
  
|

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Wednesday 2 January, 2019, application creation in Google App Engine (App
Engine), first-time deployment of Google Cloud Functions (Cloud Functions) per
region, and project creation & API management in Cloud Console experienced
elevated error rates ranging from 71% to 100% for a duration of 3 hours, 40
minutes starting at 14:40 PST. Workloads already running on App Engine and
Cloud Functions, including deployment of new versions of applications and
functions, as well as ongoing use of existing projects and activated APIs,
were not impacted.

We know that many customers depend on the ability to create new Cloud
projects, applications & functions, and apologize for our failure to provide
this to you during this time. The root cause of the incident is fully
understood and engineering efforts are underway to ensure the issue is not at
risk of recurrence.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Wednesday 2 January, 2019 from 14:40 PST to 18:20 PST, application creation
in App Engine, first-time deployments of Cloud Functions, and project creation
& API auto-enablement in Cloud Console experienced elevated error rates in all
regions due to a recently deployed configuration update to the underlying
control plane for all impacted services.

First-time deployments of new Cloud Functions failed. Redeploying existing
deployments of Cloud Functions were not impacted. Workloads on already
deployed Cloud Functions were not impacted.

App Engine app creation experienced an error rate of 98%. Workloads for
deployed App Engine applications were not impacted.

Cloud API enable requests experienced a 97% average error rate while disable
requests had a 71% average error rate. Affected users observed these errors
when attempting to enable an API via the Cloud Console and API Console.

ROOT CAUSE

The control plane responsible for managing new app creations in App Engine,
new function deployments in Cloud Functions, project creation & API management
in Cloud Console utilizes a metadata store. This metadata store is responsible
for persisting and processing new project creations, function deployments, App
Engine applications, and API enablements.

Google engineers began rolling out a new feature designed to improve the
fault-tolerance of the metadata store. The rollout had been successful in test
environments, but triggered an issue in production due to an unexpected
difference in configuration, which triggered a bug. The bug caused writes to
the metadata store to fail.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google engineers were automatically alerted of the elevated error rate within
3 minutes of the incident start and immediately began their investigation.

At 15:17, an issue with our metadata store was identified as the root cause,
and mitigation work began. An initial mitigation was applied, but automation
intentionally slowed the rollout of this mitigation to minimize risks to
production. To reduce time to resolution, Google engineers developed and
implemented a new mitigation. The metadata store became fully available at
18:20.

To prevent a recurrence, we will implement additional validation to the
metadata store’s schemas and ensure that test validation of metadata store
configuration matches production.

To improve time to resolution for such issues, we are increasing the
robustness of our emergency rollback procedures for the metadata store, and
creating engineering runbooks for such scenarios.  
  
| Jan 02, 2019 | 18:38 |

The issue regarding Google App Engine application creation, GCP Project
Creation, Cloud Function deployments, and GenerateUploadUrl calls has been
resolved for all affected users as of Wednesday, 2019-01-02 18:35 US/Pacific.
We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate
improvements to our systems to help prevent or minimize future recurrence.  
  
|

The issue regarding Google App Engine application creation, GCP Project
Creation, Cloud Function deployments, and GenerateUploadUrl calls has been
resolved for all affected users as of Wednesday, 2019-01-02 18:35 US/Pacific.
We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate
improvements to our systems to help prevent or minimize future recurrence.  
  
| Jan 02, 2019 | 18:16 |

Mitigation work is currently underway by our Engineering Team. As the work
progresses, the error rates observed from various affected systems continue to
drop. We will provide another status update by Wednesday, 2019-01-02 19:15
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

Mitigation work is currently underway by our Engineering Team. As the work
progresses, the error rates observed from various affected systems continue to
drop. We will provide another status update by Wednesday, 2019-01-02 19:15
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Jan 02, 2019 | 17:13 |

Error rates have started to subside. Mitigation work is continuing by our
Engineering Team. We will provide another status update by Wednesday,
2019-01-02 18:15 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

Error rates have started to subside. Mitigation work is continuing by our
Engineering Team. We will provide another status update by Wednesday,
2019-01-02 18:15 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Jan 02, 2019 | 16:31 |

Mitigation work is currently underway by our Engineering Team. We will provide
another status update by Wednesday, 2019-01-02 17:15 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

Mitigation work is currently underway by our Engineering Team. We will provide
another status update by Wednesday, 2019-01-02 17:15 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Jan 02, 2019 | 16:04 |

We are currently investigating an issue with Google App Engine app creation,
Cloud Function deployments, and Project Creation in Cloud Console as of
Wednesday, 2019-01-02 15:07 US/Pacific.

Affected customers may see elevated errors when creating Google App Engine
applications in all regions.

Affected Customers may also experience an issue with GCP Project Creation,
Cloud Function deployments, and GenerateUploadUrl calls may also fail.
Existing App Engine applications are unaffected.

We have identified the root cause and are working towards a mitigation. We
will provide another status update by Wednesday, 2019-01-02 16:45 US/Pacific
with current details.  
  
|

We are currently investigating an issue with Google App Engine app creation,
Cloud Function deployments, and Project Creation in Cloud Console as of
Wednesday, 2019-01-02 15:07 US/Pacific.

Affected customers may see elevated errors when creating Google App Engine
applications in all regions.

Affected Customers may also experience an issue with GCP Project Creation,
Cloud Function deployments, and GenerateUploadUrl calls may also fail.
Existing App Engine applications are unaffected.

We have identified the root cause and are working towards a mitigation. We
will provide another status update by Wednesday, 2019-01-02 16:45 US/Pacific
with current details.  
  
| Jan 02, 2019 | 15:38 |

We are investigating elevated errors when creating Google App Engine
applications in all regions as of Wednesday, 2019-01-02 15:07 US/Pacific.
Existing App Engine applications are unaffected. We have identified the root
cause and are working towards a mitigation. We will provide another status
update by Wednesday, 2019-01-02 16:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are investigating elevated errors when creating Google App Engine
applications in all regions as of Wednesday, 2019-01-02 15:07 US/Pacific.
Existing App Engine applications are unaffected. We have identified the root
cause and are working towards a mitigation. We will provide another status
update by Wednesday, 2019-01-02 16:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Jan 02, 2019 | 15:38 |

Google App Engine application creation is experiencing elevated error rates in
all regions.  
  
|

Google App Engine application creation is experiencing elevated error rates in
all regions.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()
  * [About](https://cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard)

  *  

