# [](//cloud.google.com)

March 13, 2020  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google App Engine](/incident/appengine/19007)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google App Engine Incident #19007

Elevated error rate with Google App Engine Blobstore API and App Engine
Version Deployment

Incident began at **2019-03-12 18:30** and ended at **2019-03-12 22:50** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Mar 14, 2019 | 11:11 |

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Tuesday 12 March 2019, Google's internal blob storage service experienced a
service disruption for a duration of 4 hours and 10 minutes. We apologize to
customers whose service or application was impacted by this incident. We know
that our customers depend on Google Cloud Platform services and we are taking
immediate steps to improve our availability and prevent outages of this type
from recurring.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Tuesday 12 March 2019 from 18:40 to 22:50 PDT, Google's internal blob
(large data object) storage service experienced elevated error rates,
averaging 20% error rates with a short peak of 31% errors during the incident.
User-visible Google services including Gmail, Photos, and Google Drive, which
make use of the blob storage service also saw elevated error rates, although
(as was the case with GCS) the user impact was greatly reduced by caching and
redundancy built into those services. There will be a separate incident report
for non-GCP services affected by this incident.

The Google Cloud Platform services that experienced the most significant
customer impact were the following:

Google Cloud Storage experienced elevated long tail latency and an average
error rate of 4.8%. All bucket locations and storage classes were impacted.
GCP services that depend on Cloud Storage were also impacted.

Stackdriver Monitoring experienced up to 5% errors retrieving historical time
series data. Recent time series data was available. Alerting was not impacted.

App Engine's Blobstore API experienced elevated latency and an error rate that
peaked at 21% for fetching blob data. App Engine deployments experienced
elevated errors that peaked at 90%. Serving of static files from App Engine
also experienced elevated errors.

ROOT CAUSE

On Monday 11 March 2019, Google SREs were alerted to a significant increase in
storage resources for metadata used by the internal blob service. On Tuesday
12 March, to reduce resource usage, SREs made a configuration change which had
a side effect of overloading a key part of the system for looking up the
location of blob data. The increased load eventually lead to a cascading
failure.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

SREs were alerted to the service disruption at 18:56 PDT and immediately
stopped the job that was making configuration changes. In order to recover
from the cascading failure, SREs manually reduced traffic levels to the blob
service to allow tasks to start up without crashing due to high load.

In order to prevent service disruptions of this type, we will be improving the
isolation between regions of the storage service so that failures are less
likely to have global impact. We will be improving our ability to more quickly
provision resources in order to recover from a cascading failure triggered by
high load. We will make software measures to prevent any configuration changes
that cause overloading of key parts of the system. We will improve load
shedding behavior of the metadata storage system so that it degrades
gracefully under overload.  
  
|

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Tuesday 12 March 2019, Google's internal blob storage service experienced a
service disruption for a duration of 4 hours and 10 minutes. We apologize to
customers whose service or application was impacted by this incident. We know
that our customers depend on Google Cloud Platform services and we are taking
immediate steps to improve our availability and prevent outages of this type
from recurring.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Tuesday 12 March 2019 from 18:40 to 22:50 PDT, Google's internal blob
(large data object) storage service experienced elevated error rates,
averaging 20% error rates with a short peak of 31% errors during the incident.
User-visible Google services including Gmail, Photos, and Google Drive, which
make use of the blob storage service also saw elevated error rates, although
(as was the case with GCS) the user impact was greatly reduced by caching and
redundancy built into those services. There will be a separate incident report
for non-GCP services affected by this incident.

The Google Cloud Platform services that experienced the most significant
customer impact were the following:

Google Cloud Storage experienced elevated long tail latency and an average
error rate of 4.8%. All bucket locations and storage classes were impacted.
GCP services that depend on Cloud Storage were also impacted.

Stackdriver Monitoring experienced up to 5% errors retrieving historical time
series data. Recent time series data was available. Alerting was not impacted.

App Engine's Blobstore API experienced elevated latency and an error rate that
peaked at 21% for fetching blob data. App Engine deployments experienced
elevated errors that peaked at 90%. Serving of static files from App Engine
also experienced elevated errors.

ROOT CAUSE

On Monday 11 March 2019, Google SREs were alerted to a significant increase in
storage resources for metadata used by the internal blob service. On Tuesday
12 March, to reduce resource usage, SREs made a configuration change which had
a side effect of overloading a key part of the system for looking up the
location of blob data. The increased load eventually lead to a cascading
failure.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

SREs were alerted to the service disruption at 18:56 PDT and immediately
stopped the job that was making configuration changes. In order to recover
from the cascading failure, SREs manually reduced traffic levels to the blob
service to allow tasks to start up without crashing due to high load.

In order to prevent service disruptions of this type, we will be improving the
isolation between regions of the storage service so that failures are less
likely to have global impact. We will be improving our ability to more quickly
provision resources in order to recover from a cascading failure triggered by
high load. We will make software measures to prevent any configuration changes
that cause overloading of key parts of the system. We will improve load
shedding behavior of the metadata storage system so that it degrades
gracefully under overload.  
  
| Mar 12, 2019 | 23:31 |

The issue with App Engine Blobstore API has been resolved for all affected
projects as of Tuesday, 2019-03-12 23:27 US/Pacific. We will conduct an
internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our
systems to help prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more
detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal
investigation.  
  
|

The issue with App Engine Blobstore API has been resolved for all affected
projects as of Tuesday, 2019-03-12 23:27 US/Pacific. We will conduct an
internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our
systems to help prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more
detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal
investigation.  
  
| Mar 12, 2019 | 23:18 |

The issue with App Engine Deployment should be resolved as of Tuesday,
2019-03-12 23:11 US/Pacific, and the issue with underlying storage of
Blobstore API should be resolved for the majority of projects and we expect a
full resolution in the near future. We will provide another status update by
Tuesday, 2019-03-12 23:45 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

The issue with App Engine Deployment should be resolved as of Tuesday,
2019-03-12 23:11 US/Pacific, and the issue with underlying storage of
Blobstore API should be resolved for the majority of projects and we expect a
full resolution in the near future. We will provide another status update by
Tuesday, 2019-03-12 23:45 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Mar 12, 2019 | 22:52 |

The underlying storage infrastructure is gradually recovering. We will provide
another status update by Tuesday, 2019-03-12 23:15 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

The underlying storage infrastructure is gradually recovering. We will provide
another status update by Tuesday, 2019-03-12 23:15 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Mar 12, 2019 | 22:16 |

We still have an issue with App Engine Blobstore API and Version Deployment.
Our Engineering team understands the root cause and is working to implement
the solution. We will provide another status update by Tuesday, 2019-03-12
22:45 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We still have an issue with App Engine Blobstore API and Version Deployment.
Our Engineering team understands the root cause and is working to implement
the solution. We will provide another status update by Tuesday, 2019-03-12
22:45 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Mar 12, 2019 | 21:56 |

The issue with App Engine Version Deployment should be resolved for some
runtimes, including nodejs, python37, php72, go111, but we are still seeing
the issue with other runtimes. We will provide another status update by
Tuesday, 2019-03-12 22:15 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

The issue with App Engine Version Deployment should be resolved for some
runtimes, including nodejs, python37, php72, go111, but we are still seeing
the issue with other runtimes. We will provide another status update by
Tuesday, 2019-03-12 22:15 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Mar 12, 2019 | 21:47 |

We are still working to address the root cause of the issue. We will provide
another status update by Tuesday, 2019-03-12 22:15 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

We are still working to address the root cause of the issue. We will provide
another status update by Tuesday, 2019-03-12 22:15 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Mar 12, 2019 | 21:17 |

Mitigation work with the underlying storage infrastructure is still underway
by our Engineering Team. We will provide another status update by Tuesday,
2019-03-12 21:45 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

Mitigation work with the underlying storage infrastructure is still underway
by our Engineering Team. We will provide another status update by Tuesday,
2019-03-12 21:45 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Mar 12, 2019 | 20:50 |

We are still working on the issue with Google App Engine Blobstore API and App
Engine Version Deployment. Our Engineering Team believes they have identified
the potential root causes of the errors and is working to mitigate. We will
provide another status update by Tuesday, 2019-03-12 21:15 US/Pacific with
current details.  
  
|

We are still working on the issue with Google App Engine Blobstore API and App
Engine Version Deployment. Our Engineering Team believes they have identified
the potential root causes of the errors and is working to mitigate. We will
provide another status update by Tuesday, 2019-03-12 21:15 US/Pacific with
current details.  
  
| Mar 12, 2019 | 20:14 |

Mitigation work is currently underway by our Engineering Team. We will provide
another status update by Tuesday, 2019-03-12 20:45 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

Mitigation work is currently underway by our Engineering Team. We will provide
another status update by Tuesday, 2019-03-12 20:45 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Mar 12, 2019 | 19:58 |

We are still seeing the increased error rate with Google App Engine Blobstore
API. Our Engineering Team is investigating possible causes. We will provide
another status update by Tuesday, 2019-03-12 20:30 US/Pacific US/Pacific with
current details.  
  
|

We are still seeing the increased error rate with Google App Engine Blobstore
API. Our Engineering Team is investigating possible causes. We will provide
another status update by Tuesday, 2019-03-12 20:30 US/Pacific US/Pacific with
current details.  
  
| Mar 12, 2019 | 19:49 |

We are investigating an issue with Google App Engine. We will provide more
information by Tuesday, 2019-03-12 20:00 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating an issue with Google App Engine. We will provide more
information by Tuesday, 2019-03-12 20:00 US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()
  * [About](https://cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard)

  *  

