# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

November 09, 2016  All services normal

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google App Engine](/incident/appengine/15023)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google App Engine Incident #15023

Network Connectivity and Latency Issues in Europe

Incident began at **2015-11-10 08:00** and ended at **2015-11-10 13:15** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Nov 13, 2015 | 12:22 |

SUMMARY:

On Tuesday, 10 November 2015, outbound traffic going through one of our
European routers from both Google Compute Engine and Google App Engine
experienced high latency for a duration of 6h43m minutes. If your service or
application was affected, we apologize — this is not the level of quality and
reliability we strive to offer you, and we have taken and are taking immediate
steps to improve the platform’s performance and availability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Tuesday, 10 November 2015 from 06:30 - 13:13 PST, a subset of outbound
traffic from Google Compute Engine VMs and Google App Engine instances
experienced high latency. The disruption to service was limited to outbound
traffic through one of our European routers, and caused at peak 40% of all
traffic being routed through this device to be dropped. This accounted for 1%
of all Google Compute Engine traffic being routed from EMEA and <0.05% of all
traffic for Google App Engine.

ROOT CAUSE:

A network component failure in one of our European routers temporarily reduced
network capacity in the region causing network congestion for traffic
traversing this route. Although the issue was mitigated by changing the
traffic priority, the problem was only fully resolved when the affected
hardware was replaced.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

As soon as significant traffic congestion in the network path was detected, at
09:10 PST, Google Engineers diverted a subset of traffic away from the
affected path. As this only slightly decreased the congestion, Google
Engineers made a change in traffic priority which fully mitigated the problem
by 13:13 PST time. The replacement of the faulty hardware resolved the
problem.

To address time to resolution, Google engineers have added appropriate alerts
to the monitoring of this type of router, so that similar congestion events
will be spotted significantly more quickly in future. Additionally, Google
engineers will ensure that capacity plans properly account for all types of
traffic in single device failures. Furthermore, Google engineers will audit
and augment capacity in this region to ensure sufficient redundancy is
available.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

On Tuesday, 10 November 2015, outbound traffic going through one of our
European routers from both Google Compute Engine and Google App Engine
experienced high latency for a duration of 6h43m minutes. If your service or
application was affected, we apologize — this is not the level of quality and
reliability we strive to offer you, and we have taken and are taking immediate
steps to improve the platform’s performance and availability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Tuesday, 10 November 2015 from 06:30 - 13:13 PST, a subset of outbound
traffic from Google Compute Engine VMs and Google App Engine instances
experienced high latency. The disruption to service was limited to outbound
traffic through one of our European routers, and caused at peak 40% of all
traffic being routed through this device to be dropped. This accounted for 1%
of all Google Compute Engine traffic being routed from EMEA and <0.05% of all
traffic for Google App Engine.

ROOT CAUSE:

A network component failure in one of our European routers temporarily reduced
network capacity in the region causing network congestion for traffic
traversing this route. Although the issue was mitigated by changing the
traffic priority, the problem was only fully resolved when the affected
hardware was replaced.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

As soon as significant traffic congestion in the network path was detected, at
09:10 PST, Google Engineers diverted a subset of traffic away from the
affected path. As this only slightly decreased the congestion, Google
Engineers made a change in traffic priority which fully mitigated the problem
by 13:13 PST time. The replacement of the faulty hardware resolved the
problem.

To address time to resolution, Google engineers have added appropriate alerts
to the monitoring of this type of router, so that similar congestion events
will be spotted significantly more quickly in future. Additionally, Google
engineers will ensure that capacity plans properly account for all types of
traffic in single device failures. Furthermore, Google engineers will audit
and augment capacity in this region to ensure sufficient redundancy is
available.  
  
| Nov 10, 2015 | 13:40 |

We have resolved the issue with high latency and network connectivity to/from
services hosted in Europe. This issue started at approximately 08:00 PST and
was resolved as of 13:15 PST. We will be conducting an internal investigation
and will share the results of our investigation soon. If you continue to see
issues with connectivity to/from services in Europe, please create a case and
let us know.  
  
|

We have resolved the issue with high latency and network connectivity to/from
services hosted in Europe. This issue started at approximately 08:00 PST and
was resolved as of 13:15 PST. We will be conducting an internal investigation
and will share the results of our investigation soon. If you continue to see
issues with connectivity to/from services in Europe, please create a case and
let us know.  
  
| Nov 10, 2015 | 12:34 |

We are investigating reports of issues with network connectivity and latency
for Google App Engine and Google Compute Engine in Europe. We will provide
more information by 13:30 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating reports of issues with network connectivity and latency
for Google App Engine and Google Compute Engine in Europe. We will provide
more information by 13:30 US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

