# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

March 29, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google BigQuery](/incident/bigquery/18015)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google BigQuery Incident #18015

Google BigQuery issues

Incident began at **2016-05-18 11:49** and ended at **2016-05-18 12:30** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Jun 01, 2016 | 09:38 |

SUMMARY:

On Wednesday 18 May 2016 the BigQuery API was unavailable for two periods
totaling 31 minutes. We understand how important access to your data stored in
BigQuery is and we apologize for the impact this had on you. We have
investigated the incident to determine how we can mitigate future issues and
provide better service for you in the future.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Wednesday 18 May 2016 from 11:50 until 12:15 PDT all non-streaming BigQuery
API calls failed, and additionally from 14:41 until 14:47, 70% of calls
failed. An error rate of 1% occurred from 11:28 until 15:34. API calls
affected by this issue experienced elevated latency and eventually returned an
HTTP 500 status with an error message of "Backend Error". The BigQuery web
console was also unavailable during these periods.

The streaming API and BigQuery export of logs and usage data were unaffected.

ROOT CAUSE:

In 2015 BigQuery introduced datasets located in Europe. This required
infrastructure to allow BigQuery API calls to be routed to an appropriate
zone. This infrastructure was deployed uneventfully and has been operating in
production for some time. The errors on 18 May were caused when a new
configuration was deployed to improve routing of APIs, and then subsequently
rolled back. The engineering team has made changes to the routing
configuration for BigQuery API calls to prevent this issue from recurring in
the future, and to more rapidly detect elevated error levels in BigQuery API
calls in the future

Finally, we would like to apologize for this issue - particularly its scope
and duration. We know that BigQuery is a critical component of many GCP
deployments, and we are committed to continually improving its availability.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

On Wednesday 18 May 2016 the BigQuery API was unavailable for two periods
totaling 31 minutes. We understand how important access to your data stored in
BigQuery is and we apologize for the impact this had on you. We have
investigated the incident to determine how we can mitigate future issues and
provide better service for you in the future.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Wednesday 18 May 2016 from 11:50 until 12:15 PDT all non-streaming BigQuery
API calls failed, and additionally from 14:41 until 14:47, 70% of calls
failed. An error rate of 1% occurred from 11:28 until 15:34. API calls
affected by this issue experienced elevated latency and eventually returned an
HTTP 500 status with an error message of "Backend Error". The BigQuery web
console was also unavailable during these periods.

The streaming API and BigQuery export of logs and usage data were unaffected.

ROOT CAUSE:

In 2015 BigQuery introduced datasets located in Europe. This required
infrastructure to allow BigQuery API calls to be routed to an appropriate
zone. This infrastructure was deployed uneventfully and has been operating in
production for some time. The errors on 18 May were caused when a new
configuration was deployed to improve routing of APIs, and then subsequently
rolled back. The engineering team has made changes to the routing
configuration for BigQuery API calls to prevent this issue from recurring in
the future, and to more rapidly detect elevated error levels in BigQuery API
calls in the future

Finally, we would like to apologize for this issue - particularly its scope
and duration. We know that BigQuery is a critical component of many GCP
deployments, and we are committed to continually improving its availability.  
  
| May 18, 2016 | 12:37 |

The issue with BigQuery API should have been resolved for all affected
projects as of 12:30 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of
this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or
minimize future recurrence.  
  
|

The issue with BigQuery API should have been resolved for all affected
projects as of 12:30 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of
this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or
minimize future recurrence.  
  
| May 18, 2016 | 12:17 |

We are currently investigating an issue with the BigQuery API. We'll provide
an update at 12:30 PDT  
  
|

We are currently investigating an issue with the BigQuery API. We'll provide
an update at 12:30 PDT  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

