# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

November 28, 2016  All services normal

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google BigQuery](/incident/bigquery/18012)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google BigQuery Incident #18012

Errors Accessing the Big Query UI and API

Incident began at **2015-11-29 07:30** and ended at **2015-11-29 08:30** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Dec 01, 2015 | 12:53 |

SUMMARY:

On Sunday 29th of November 2015, for an aggregate of 33 minutes occurring
between 7:31am and 8:24am PST, 11% of all requests to the BigQuery API
experienced errors. If your service or application was affected, we apologize
— this is not the level of quality and reliability we strive to offer you, and
we have taken and are taking immediate steps to improve the platform’s
performance and availability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Sunday 29th of November 2015, between 7:31am and 7:41am, 7% of BigQuery API
requests were redirected (HTTP 302) to a CAPTCHA service. The issue reoccurred
between 8:01am and 8:24am PST, affecting 22% of requests. As the CAPTCHA
service is intended to verify that the requester is human, any automated
requests that were redirected failed.

ROOT CAUSE:

The BigQuery API is designed to provide fair service to all users during
intervals of unusually-high traffic. During this event, a surge in traffic to
the API caused traffic verification and fairness systems to activate, causing
a fraction of requests to be redirected to the CAPTCHA service.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

While investigating the source of the increased traffic, Google engineers
assessed that BigQuery’s service capacity was sufficient to handle the
additional queries without putting existing queries at risk. The engineers
instructed BigQuery to allow the additional queries without verification,
ending the incident.

To prevent future recurrences of this problem, Google engineers will change
BigQuery's traffic threshold policy to an adaptive mechanism appropriate for
automated requests, which provides intelligent traffic control and isolation
for individual users.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

On Sunday 29th of November 2015, for an aggregate of 33 minutes occurring
between 7:31am and 8:24am PST, 11% of all requests to the BigQuery API
experienced errors. If your service or application was affected, we apologize
— this is not the level of quality and reliability we strive to offer you, and
we have taken and are taking immediate steps to improve the platform’s
performance and availability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Sunday 29th of November 2015, between 7:31am and 7:41am, 7% of BigQuery API
requests were redirected (HTTP 302) to a CAPTCHA service. The issue reoccurred
between 8:01am and 8:24am PST, affecting 22% of requests. As the CAPTCHA
service is intended to verify that the requester is human, any automated
requests that were redirected failed.

ROOT CAUSE:

The BigQuery API is designed to provide fair service to all users during
intervals of unusually-high traffic. During this event, a surge in traffic to
the API caused traffic verification and fairness systems to activate, causing
a fraction of requests to be redirected to the CAPTCHA service.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

While investigating the source of the increased traffic, Google engineers
assessed that BigQuery’s service capacity was sufficient to handle the
additional queries without putting existing queries at risk. The engineers
instructed BigQuery to allow the additional queries without verification,
ending the incident.

To prevent future recurrences of this problem, Google engineers will change
BigQuery's traffic threshold policy to an adaptive mechanism appropriate for
automated requests, which provides intelligent traffic control and isolation
for individual users.  
  
| Nov 29, 2015 | 09:32 |

We experienced an intermittent issue with Big Query for requests to the UI or
API beginning at Sunday, 2016-11-29 07:30 US/Pacific.

Current data indicates that approximately 25% of requests are affected by this
issue.

This issue should have been resolved for all affected users as of 08:30
US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make
appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future
recurrence.  
  
|

We experienced an intermittent issue with Big Query for requests to the UI or
API beginning at Sunday, 2016-11-29 07:30 US/Pacific.

Current data indicates that approximately 25% of requests are affected by this
issue.

This issue should have been resolved for all affected users as of 08:30
US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make
appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future
recurrence.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

