# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

August 02, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google BigQuery](/incident/bigquery/18032)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google BigQuery Incident #18032

BigQuery Disabled for Projected

Incident began at **2017-07-26 14:06** and ended at **2017-07-26 16:16** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Aug 02, 2017 | 08:12 |

ISSUE SUMMARY

On 2017-07-26, BigQuery delivered error messages for 7% of queries and 15% of
exports for a duration of two hours and one minute. It also experienced
elevated failures for streaming inserts for one hour and 40 minutes. If your
service or application was affected, we apologize – this is not the level of
quality and reliability we strive to offer you, and we are taking immediate
steps to improve BigQuery’s performance and availability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On 2017-07-26 from 13:45 to 15:45 US/PDT, BigQuery jobs experienced elevated
failures at a rate of 7% to 15%, depending on the operation attempted. Overall
7% of queries, 15% of exports, and 9% of streaming inserts failed during this
event. These failures occurred in 12% of customer projects The errors for
affected projects varied from 2% to 69% of exports, over 50% for queries, and
up to 28.5% for streaming inserts. Customers affected saw an error message
stating that their project has “not enabled BigQuery”.

ROOT CAUSE

Prior to executing a BigQuery job, Google’s Service Manager validates that the
project requesting the job has BigQuery enabled for the project. The Service
Manager consists of several components, including a redundant data store for
project configurations, and a permissions module which inspects
configurations. The project configuration data is being migrated to a new
format and new version of the data store, and as part of that migration, the
permissions module is being updated to use the new format. As is normal
production best practices, this migration is being performed in stages
separated by time.

The root cause of this event was that, during one stage of the rollout,
configuration data for two GCP datacenters was migrated before the
corresponding permissions module for BigQuery was updated. As a result, the
permissions module in those datacenters began erroneously reporting that
projects running there no longer had BigQuery enabled. Thus, while both
BigQuery and the underlying data stores were unchanged, requests to BigQuery
from affected projects received an error message indicating that they had not
enabled BigQuery.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google’s BigQuery on-call engineering team was alerted by automated monitoring
within 15 minutes of the beginning of the event at 13:59. Subsequent
investigation determined at 14:17 that multiple projects were experiencing
BigQuery validation failures, and the cause of the errors was identified at
14:46 as being changed permissions.

Once the root cause of the errors was understood, Google engineers focused on
mitigating the user impact by configuring BigQuery in affected locations to
skip the erroneous permissions check. This change was first tested in a
portion of the affected projects beginning at 15:04, and confirmed to be
effective at 15:29. That mitigation was then rolled out to all affected
projects, and was complete by 15:44. Finally, with mitigations in place, the
Google engineering team worked to safely roll back the data migration; this
work completed at 23:33 and the permissions check mitigation was removed,
closing the incident.

Google engineering has created 26 high priority action items to prevent a
recurrence of this condition and to better detect and more quickly mitigate
similar classes of issues in the future. These action items include increasing
the auditing of BigQuery’s use of Google’s Service Manager, improving the
detection and alerting of the conditions that caused this event, and improving
the response of Google engineers to similar events. In addition, the core
issue that affected the BigQuery backend has already been fixed.

Google is committed to quickly and continually improving our technology and
operations to prevent service disruptions. We appreciate your patience and
apologize again for the impact to your organization.  
  
|

ISSUE SUMMARY

On 2017-07-26, BigQuery delivered error messages for 7% of queries and 15% of
exports for a duration of two hours and one minute. It also experienced
elevated failures for streaming inserts for one hour and 40 minutes. If your
service or application was affected, we apologize – this is not the level of
quality and reliability we strive to offer you, and we are taking immediate
steps to improve BigQuery’s performance and availability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On 2017-07-26 from 13:45 to 15:45 US/PDT, BigQuery jobs experienced elevated
failures at a rate of 7% to 15%, depending on the operation attempted. Overall
7% of queries, 15% of exports, and 9% of streaming inserts failed during this
event. These failures occurred in 12% of customer projects The errors for
affected projects varied from 2% to 69% of exports, over 50% for queries, and
up to 28.5% for streaming inserts. Customers affected saw an error message
stating that their project has “not enabled BigQuery”.

ROOT CAUSE

Prior to executing a BigQuery job, Google’s Service Manager validates that the
project requesting the job has BigQuery enabled for the project. The Service
Manager consists of several components, including a redundant data store for
project configurations, and a permissions module which inspects
configurations. The project configuration data is being migrated to a new
format and new version of the data store, and as part of that migration, the
permissions module is being updated to use the new format. As is normal
production best practices, this migration is being performed in stages
separated by time.

The root cause of this event was that, during one stage of the rollout,
configuration data for two GCP datacenters was migrated before the
corresponding permissions module for BigQuery was updated. As a result, the
permissions module in those datacenters began erroneously reporting that
projects running there no longer had BigQuery enabled. Thus, while both
BigQuery and the underlying data stores were unchanged, requests to BigQuery
from affected projects received an error message indicating that they had not
enabled BigQuery.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google’s BigQuery on-call engineering team was alerted by automated monitoring
within 15 minutes of the beginning of the event at 13:59. Subsequent
investigation determined at 14:17 that multiple projects were experiencing
BigQuery validation failures, and the cause of the errors was identified at
14:46 as being changed permissions.

Once the root cause of the errors was understood, Google engineers focused on
mitigating the user impact by configuring BigQuery in affected locations to
skip the erroneous permissions check. This change was first tested in a
portion of the affected projects beginning at 15:04, and confirmed to be
effective at 15:29. That mitigation was then rolled out to all affected
projects, and was complete by 15:44. Finally, with mitigations in place, the
Google engineering team worked to safely roll back the data migration; this
work completed at 23:33 and the permissions check mitigation was removed,
closing the incident.

Google engineering has created 26 high priority action items to prevent a
recurrence of this condition and to better detect and more quickly mitigate
similar classes of issues in the future. These action items include increasing
the auditing of BigQuery’s use of Google’s Service Manager, improving the
detection and alerting of the conditions that caused this event, and improving
the response of Google engineers to similar events. In addition, the core
issue that affected the BigQuery backend has already been fixed.

Google is committed to quickly and continually improving our technology and
operations to prevent service disruptions. We appreciate your patience and
apologize again for the impact to your organization.  
  
| Jul 26, 2017 | 16:16 |

The issue with BigQuery access errors has been resolved for all affected
projects as of 16:15 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of
this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to help prevent or
minimize future recurrence.  
  
|

The issue with BigQuery access errors has been resolved for all affected
projects as of 16:15 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of
this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to help prevent or
minimize future recurrence.  
  
| Jul 26, 2017 | 15:59 |

The issue with BigQuery errors should be resolved for the majority of projects
and we expect a full resolution in the near future. We will provide another
status update by 16:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

The issue with BigQuery errors should be resolved for the majority of projects
and we expect a full resolution in the near future. We will provide another
status update by 16:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Jul 26, 2017 | 15:24 |

The BigQuery engineers have identified a possible workaround to the issue
affecting the platform and are deploying it now. Next update at 16:00PDT  
  
|

The BigQuery engineers have identified a possible workaround to the issue
affecting the platform and are deploying it now. Next update at 16:00PDT  
  
| Jul 26, 2017 | 15:00 |

At this time BigQuery is experiencing a partial outage, reporting that the
service is not available for the project. Engineers are currently
investigating the issue.  
  
|

At this time BigQuery is experiencing a partial outage, reporting that the
service is not available for the project. Engineers are currently
investigating the issue.  
  
| Jul 26, 2017 | 14:58 |

We are investigating an issue with BigQuery. We will provide more information
by 15:30 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating an issue with BigQuery. We will provide more information
by 15:30 US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

