# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

December 21, 2019  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Cloud Networking](/incident/cloud-networking/18019)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Cloud Networking Incident #18019

We are investigating an issue with Google Cloud Networking in the zone europe-
west1-b. We will provide more information by Wednesday, 2018-12-19 07:00
US/Pacific.

Incident began at **2018-12-19 06:00** and ended at **2018-12-19 06:39** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Dec 21, 2018 | 14:49 |

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Wednesday 19 December 2018 multiple GCP services in europe-west1-b
experienced a disruption for a duration of 34 minutes. Several GCP services
were impacted: GCE, Monitoring, Cloud Console, GAE Admin API, Task Queues,
Cloud Spanner, Cloud SQL, GKE, Cloud Bigtable, and Redis. GCP services in all
other zones remained unaffected.

This service disruption was caused by an erroneous trigger leading to a switch
re-installation during upgrades to two control plane network (CPN) switches
impacting a portion of europe-west1-b. Most impacted GCP services in the zone
recovered within a few minutes after the issue was mitigated.

We understand that these services are critical to our customers and sincerely
apologize for the disruption caused by this incident. To prevent the issue
from recurring we are fixing our repair workflows to catch such errors before
serving traffic.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Wednesday 19 December 2018 from 05:53 to 06:27 US/Pacific, multiple GCP
services in europe-west1-b experienced disruption due to a network outage in
one of Google’s data centers.

The following Google Cloud Services in europe-west1-b were impacted: GCE
instance creation, GCE networking, Cloud VPN, Cloud Interconnect, Stackdriver
Monitoring API, Cloud Console, App Engine Admin API, App Engine Task Queues,
Cloud Spanner, Cloud SQL, GKE, Cloud Bigtable, and Cloud Memorystore for
Redis. Most of these services suffered a brief disruption during the duration
of the incident and recovered when the issue was mitigated.

  * Stackdriver: Around 1% of customers accessing Stackdriver Monitoring API directly received 5xx errors.
  * Cloud Console: Affected customers may not have been able to view graphs and API usage statistics. Impacted dashboards include: /apis/dashboard, /home/dashboard, /google/maps-api/api list. 
  * Redis: After the network outage ended, ~50 standard Redis instances in europe-west1 remained unavailable until 07:55 US/Pacific due to a failover bug triggered by the outage. 

ROOT CAUSE

As part of a program to upgrade network switches in control plane networks
across Google’s data center, two control plane network (CPN) switches
supporting a single CPN were scheduled to undergo upgrades. On December 17,
the first switch was upgraded and was back online the same day. The issue
triggered on December 19 when the second switch was due to be upgraded. During
the upgrade of the second switch, a reinstallation was erroneously triggered
on the first switch, causing it to go offline for a short period of time.
Having both switches down partitioned the network supporting a portion of
europe-west1-b. Due to this isolation, the zone was left partially functional.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

The issue was mitigated at 06:27 US/Pacific when reinstallation of the first
switch in the CPN completed.

To prevent the issue from recurring we are changing the switch upgrade
workflow to prevent erroneous triggers. The trigger inadvertently caused the
switch to re-install before any CPN switch is deemed healthy to serve traffic.
We are also adding additional checks to make sure upgraded devices are in full
functional state before they are deemed healthy to start serving. We will also
be improving our automation to catch offline peer devices sooner and help
prevent related issues.  
  
|

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Wednesday 19 December 2018 multiple GCP services in europe-west1-b
experienced a disruption for a duration of 34 minutes. Several GCP services
were impacted: GCE, Monitoring, Cloud Console, GAE Admin API, Task Queues,
Cloud Spanner, Cloud SQL, GKE, Cloud Bigtable, and Redis. GCP services in all
other zones remained unaffected.

This service disruption was caused by an erroneous trigger leading to a switch
re-installation during upgrades to two control plane network (CPN) switches
impacting a portion of europe-west1-b. Most impacted GCP services in the zone
recovered within a few minutes after the issue was mitigated.

We understand that these services are critical to our customers and sincerely
apologize for the disruption caused by this incident. To prevent the issue
from recurring we are fixing our repair workflows to catch such errors before
serving traffic.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Wednesday 19 December 2018 from 05:53 to 06:27 US/Pacific, multiple GCP
services in europe-west1-b experienced disruption due to a network outage in
one of Google’s data centers.

The following Google Cloud Services in europe-west1-b were impacted: GCE
instance creation, GCE networking, Cloud VPN, Cloud Interconnect, Stackdriver
Monitoring API, Cloud Console, App Engine Admin API, App Engine Task Queues,
Cloud Spanner, Cloud SQL, GKE, Cloud Bigtable, and Cloud Memorystore for
Redis. Most of these services suffered a brief disruption during the duration
of the incident and recovered when the issue was mitigated.

  * Stackdriver: Around 1% of customers accessing Stackdriver Monitoring API directly received 5xx errors.
  * Cloud Console: Affected customers may not have been able to view graphs and API usage statistics. Impacted dashboards include: /apis/dashboard, /home/dashboard, /google/maps-api/api list. 
  * Redis: After the network outage ended, ~50 standard Redis instances in europe-west1 remained unavailable until 07:55 US/Pacific due to a failover bug triggered by the outage. 

ROOT CAUSE

As part of a program to upgrade network switches in control plane networks
across Google’s data center, two control plane network (CPN) switches
supporting a single CPN were scheduled to undergo upgrades. On December 17,
the first switch was upgraded and was back online the same day. The issue
triggered on December 19 when the second switch was due to be upgraded. During
the upgrade of the second switch, a reinstallation was erroneously triggered
on the first switch, causing it to go offline for a short period of time.
Having both switches down partitioned the network supporting a portion of
europe-west1-b. Due to this isolation, the zone was left partially functional.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

The issue was mitigated at 06:27 US/Pacific when reinstallation of the first
switch in the CPN completed.

To prevent the issue from recurring we are changing the switch upgrade
workflow to prevent erroneous triggers. The trigger inadvertently caused the
switch to re-install before any CPN switch is deemed healthy to serve traffic.
We are also adding additional checks to make sure upgraded devices are in full
functional state before they are deemed healthy to start serving. We will also
be improving our automation to catch offline peer devices sooner and help
prevent related issues.  
  
| Dec 19, 2018 | 06:39 |

The Google Cloud Networking issue in zone europe-west1-b has been resolved. No
further updates will be provided here.  
  
|

The Google Cloud Networking issue in zone europe-west1-b has been resolved. No
further updates will be provided here.  
  
| Dec 19, 2018 | 06:29 |

We are investigating an issue with Google Cloud Networking in the zone europe-
west1-b. We will provide more information by Wednesday, 2018-12-19 07:00
US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating an issue with Google Cloud Networking in the zone europe-
west1-b. We will provide more information by Wednesday, 2018-12-19 07:00
US/Pacific.  
  
| Dec 19, 2018 | 06:29 |

We are investigating an issue with Google Cloud Networking in the zone europe-
west1-b. We will provide more information by Wednesday, 2018-12-19 07:00
US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating an issue with Google Cloud Networking in the zone europe-
west1-b. We will provide more information by Wednesday, 2018-12-19 07:00
US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()
  * [About](https://cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard)

  *  

