# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 14, 2020  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Cloud Datastore](/incident/cloud-datastore/19001)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Cloud Datastore Incident #19001

We investigated an issue with Google Cloud Datastore

Incident began at **2018-12-19 00:00** and ended at **2019-01-19 00:00** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Feb 14, 2019 | 14:00 |

# ISSUE SUMMARY

Cloud Datastore experienced a low rate of errors associated with a small
subset of high write-rate databases. We have separately notified the customers
who may have been potentially impacted by these errors.

# DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

Beginning Wednesday December 19, 2018 and ending January 19 2019, Cloud
Datastore experienced a low rate of errors associated with a small subset of
high write-rate databases. Less than 0.1% of databases may have experienced
these errors when called from the us-central1 region. We have separately
notified the customers who may have been potentially impacted by these errors.

# REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

We have identified and remediated the issue. As part of the remediation, we
reverted to an earlier rollout ending the event. After verifying the issue was
resolved, Google is taking steps to improve our existing testing scenarios to
help prevent future recurrence.  
  
|

# ISSUE SUMMARY

Cloud Datastore experienced a low rate of errors associated with a small
subset of high write-rate databases. We have separately notified the customers
who may have been potentially impacted by these errors.

# DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

Beginning Wednesday December 19, 2018 and ending January 19 2019, Cloud
Datastore experienced a low rate of errors associated with a small subset of
high write-rate databases. Less than 0.1% of databases may have experienced
these errors when called from the us-central1 region. We have separately
notified the customers who may have been potentially impacted by these errors.

# REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

We have identified and remediated the issue. As part of the remediation, we
reverted to an earlier rollout ending the event. After verifying the issue was
resolved, Google is taking steps to improve our existing testing scenarios to
help prevent future recurrence.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()
  * [About](https://cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard)

  *  

