# [](//cloud.google.com)

July 19, 2020  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Cloud Networking](/incident/cloud-networking/20001)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support-hub/). Learn more about what's
posted on the dashboard in [ this
FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard). For additional information on
these services, please visit [cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Cloud Networking Incident #20001

Google’s production network experienced a temporary reduction in capacity, due
to multiple fiber cuts in optical links interconnecting Sofia, Bulgaria

Incident began at **2019-12-18 23:43** and ended at **2019-12-19 00:44** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Jan 09, 2020 | 14:14 |

### ISSUE SUMMARY

On Wednesday, 18 December, 2019, a part of Google’s production network
experienced a temporary reduction in capacity, due to multiple fiber cuts in
optical links interconnecting Sofia, Bulgaria with other points-of-presence.
This resulted in severe congestion on remaining links to Sofia for a duration
of 1 hour and 1 minute.

Access to Google Cloud products and services through Internet Service
Providers (ISPs) in Bulgaria, Turkey, Northern Macedonia, Azerbaijan, Greece,
Cyprus, Kosovo, Serbia and Iraq, which rely heavily on the Google point-of-
presence in Sofia, Bulgaria was degraded. Users outside the affected countries
were not impacted by this issue.

### DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Wednesday, 18 December, 2019, from 23:43 to Thursday, 19 December, 2019 at
00:44 US/Pacific, access to Google products and services (including Google
Cloud Platform) through ISPs in Bulgaria, Turkey, Northern Macedonia,
Azerbaijan, Greece, Cyprus, Bosnia, Kosovo, Serbia and Iraq, which rely
heavily on the Google point-of-presence in Sofia, Bulgaria, experienced severe
congestion for a duration of 1 hour and 1 minute.

End users, who use ISPs which rely heavily on the Google peering links in
Sofia to access Google Cloud services, were affected by the severe congestion
between the Sofia point-of-presence and Cloud Regions across the globe. Cloud
traffic to/from the region dropped by 60% during the one hour window with
degraded connectivity. End-users in Turkey, who generated the bulk of the
Cloud traffic to/from the region, experienced up to a 77% drop in traffic
during the incident window.

### ROOT CAUSE

Google maintains a network point-of-presence (PoP) with caching and peering
infrastructure in Sofia, Bulgaria. The Sofia PoP provides network peering to
many providers in Eastern Europe. These network providers in turn enable
access to Google services to users in Bulgaria, Turkey, Northern Macedonia,
Azerbaijan, Greece, Cyprus, Bosnia, Kosovo, Serbia and Iraq. Sofia is
connected to the rest of Google’s production network through multiple
independent optical pathways located throughout Europe.

This incident was triggered by dual, unrelated (yet overlapping), faults on
high-capacity optical network links in both Bucharest, Romania and Munich,
Germany that significantly reduced the network capacity of the interconnect
between Sofia and the Google production network.

Prior to the outage there was a fiber cut in Bucharest/Romania severing the
connectivity between Frankfurt/Germany and Sofia/Bulgaria.

A second fiber cut in Munich/Germany impacted two separate optical paths:

\-- Circuits between Frankfurt/Germany and Sofia/Bulgaria were rendered
inoperable.

\-- Circuits between Munich/Germany and Sofia/Bulgaria were left with less
than 10% of its normal capacity.

Once these links were disrupted, the small amount of remaining capacity
between the Sofia and Munich metros continued to attract traffic while unable
to fully support it. This brief period of reduced capacity resulted in severe
congestion for customers of ISPs heavily reliant on the peering links in
Sofia, Bulgaria for accessing Google products and services. Once all traffic
that was being sent through peering links in Sofia was redirected through
alternative, operational points of presence, the incident was fully mitigated.

### REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google Engineers were automatically alerted to packet loss between the Munich
and Sofia metros on 2019-12-18 at 23:47 US/Pacific and immediately began
investigating. On 2019-12-19 at 00:24 Google Engineers identified the root
cause of the packet loss and took decisive mitigation action to redirect
traffic away from the peering links in Sofia, Bulgaria. By 00:44 all impacted
traffic was successfully redirected to adjacent functional network links,
fully mitigating the impact to Google Cloud customers.

In addition to addressing the root cause of the network link disruption, we
will be improving the processes for detecting network PoPs with severely
constrained connectivity, and implementing a new feature in our existing
networking administration tooling to effectively redirect traffic away from
these PoPs without delay. This will reduce the total time to resolution for
similar classes of issues in the future. To ensure this feature is properly
utilized during emergency situations, training will be delivered to Google
Engineers.

Google is committed to quickly and continually improving our technology and
operations to prevent service disruptions. We appreciate your patience and
apologize again for the impact on your organization. We thank you for your
business.  
  
|

### ISSUE SUMMARY

On Wednesday, 18 December, 2019, a part of Google’s production network
experienced a temporary reduction in capacity, due to multiple fiber cuts in
optical links interconnecting Sofia, Bulgaria with other points-of-presence.
This resulted in severe congestion on remaining links to Sofia for a duration
of 1 hour and 1 minute.

Access to Google Cloud products and services through Internet Service
Providers (ISPs) in Bulgaria, Turkey, Northern Macedonia, Azerbaijan, Greece,
Cyprus, Kosovo, Serbia and Iraq, which rely heavily on the Google point-of-
presence in Sofia, Bulgaria was degraded. Users outside the affected countries
were not impacted by this issue.

### DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Wednesday, 18 December, 2019, from 23:43 to Thursday, 19 December, 2019 at
00:44 US/Pacific, access to Google products and services (including Google
Cloud Platform) through ISPs in Bulgaria, Turkey, Northern Macedonia,
Azerbaijan, Greece, Cyprus, Bosnia, Kosovo, Serbia and Iraq, which rely
heavily on the Google point-of-presence in Sofia, Bulgaria, experienced severe
congestion for a duration of 1 hour and 1 minute.

End users, who use ISPs which rely heavily on the Google peering links in
Sofia to access Google Cloud services, were affected by the severe congestion
between the Sofia point-of-presence and Cloud Regions across the globe. Cloud
traffic to/from the region dropped by 60% during the one hour window with
degraded connectivity. End-users in Turkey, who generated the bulk of the
Cloud traffic to/from the region, experienced up to a 77% drop in traffic
during the incident window.

### ROOT CAUSE

Google maintains a network point-of-presence (PoP) with caching and peering
infrastructure in Sofia, Bulgaria. The Sofia PoP provides network peering to
many providers in Eastern Europe. These network providers in turn enable
access to Google services to users in Bulgaria, Turkey, Northern Macedonia,
Azerbaijan, Greece, Cyprus, Bosnia, Kosovo, Serbia and Iraq. Sofia is
connected to the rest of Google’s production network through multiple
independent optical pathways located throughout Europe.

This incident was triggered by dual, unrelated (yet overlapping), faults on
high-capacity optical network links in both Bucharest, Romania and Munich,
Germany that significantly reduced the network capacity of the interconnect
between Sofia and the Google production network.

Prior to the outage there was a fiber cut in Bucharest/Romania severing the
connectivity between Frankfurt/Germany and Sofia/Bulgaria.

A second fiber cut in Munich/Germany impacted two separate optical paths:

\-- Circuits between Frankfurt/Germany and Sofia/Bulgaria were rendered
inoperable.

\-- Circuits between Munich/Germany and Sofia/Bulgaria were left with less
than 10% of its normal capacity.

Once these links were disrupted, the small amount of remaining capacity
between the Sofia and Munich metros continued to attract traffic while unable
to fully support it. This brief period of reduced capacity resulted in severe
congestion for customers of ISPs heavily reliant on the peering links in
Sofia, Bulgaria for accessing Google products and services. Once all traffic
that was being sent through peering links in Sofia was redirected through
alternative, operational points of presence, the incident was fully mitigated.

### REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google Engineers were automatically alerted to packet loss between the Munich
and Sofia metros on 2019-12-18 at 23:47 US/Pacific and immediately began
investigating. On 2019-12-19 at 00:24 Google Engineers identified the root
cause of the packet loss and took decisive mitigation action to redirect
traffic away from the peering links in Sofia, Bulgaria. By 00:44 all impacted
traffic was successfully redirected to adjacent functional network links,
fully mitigating the impact to Google Cloud customers.

In addition to addressing the root cause of the network link disruption, we
will be improving the processes for detecting network PoPs with severely
constrained connectivity, and implementing a new feature in our existing
networking administration tooling to effectively redirect traffic away from
these PoPs without delay. This will reduce the total time to resolution for
similar classes of issues in the future. To ensure this feature is properly
utilized during emergency situations, training will be delivered to Google
Engineers.

Google is committed to quickly and continually improving our technology and
operations to prevent service disruptions. We appreciate your patience and
apologize again for the impact on your organization. We thank you for your
business.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()
  * [About](https://cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard)

  *  

