# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

July 02, 2019  Google Cloud Networking reporting issues

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Identity and Access Management](/incident/cloud-iam/18001)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Identity and Access Management Incident #18001

Issue affecting the ability to list projects and organizations

Incident began at **2018-06-27 14:21** and ended at **2018-06-27 15:11** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Jul 02, 2018 | 09:20 |

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Wednesday 27 June 2018, Google Cloud Console and Google Cloud Resource
Manager API experienced a significant performance degradation for a duration
of 51 minutes. Although, this did not affect user resources running on the
Google Cloud Platform, we understand that our customers rely heavily on Google
Cloud Console to manage their resources and we sincerely apologize to everyone
who was affected by the incident.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

From 14:21 to 15:11 PDT, users were unable to manage their folders, projects
and organizations using Google Cloud Console, Google Cloud Resource Manager
API and gcloud command line. The following APIs were affected:

Google Cloud Console: Impacted users were unable to list their projects,
search for projects, folders and organizations or view their bill. Search box
failed to return the above too. Google Cloud Resource Manager API: Impacted
users were unable to list their projects, folders and organizations BigQuery:
Impacted users were unable to list their bigquery projects using the API.

ROOT CAUSE

The incident was triggered by a configuration change in the search
infrastructure powering Cloud resource metadata search. The search
infrastructure sends ACL checks to a central ACL server to make sure the end
user has access to the Cloud resource metadata it plans to return. The
configuration change introduced a new field in the ACL check request, while
the central ACL server had not whitelisted the search infrastructure to send
that field, causing an outage in Cloud resource metadata search.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

At 12:26 PDT, Google Engineers rolled out the configuration change. Our
automated release validation system rejected the change due to a high rate of
errors. Around 14:16 PDT, an unrelated change was made to the same search
infrastructure which triggered a bug that disabled its automated release
validation system. This change also inadvertently picked up the prior
configuration change and due to the lack of automated release validation, the
change was successfully propagated to production. Within a span of few
minutes, several engineering teams were automatically alerted to the situation
and began the mitigation process.

The issue was fully mitigated at 15:11 PDT when the configuration change was
rolled back.

We apologize again for the inconvenience caused. We are taking immediate steps
to prevent recurrence and improve reliability in the future, including:

Fixing the bug that inadvertently disabled the canary analysis system.
Improving process around pushing changes that involve several dependencies.
Improving testing and staging alerts to catch issues of this nature before
they reach production.  
  
|

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Wednesday 27 June 2018, Google Cloud Console and Google Cloud Resource
Manager API experienced a significant performance degradation for a duration
of 51 minutes. Although, this did not affect user resources running on the
Google Cloud Platform, we understand that our customers rely heavily on Google
Cloud Console to manage their resources and we sincerely apologize to everyone
who was affected by the incident.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

From 14:21 to 15:11 PDT, users were unable to manage their folders, projects
and organizations using Google Cloud Console, Google Cloud Resource Manager
API and gcloud command line. The following APIs were affected:

Google Cloud Console: Impacted users were unable to list their projects,
search for projects, folders and organizations or view their bill. Search box
failed to return the above too. Google Cloud Resource Manager API: Impacted
users were unable to list their projects, folders and organizations BigQuery:
Impacted users were unable to list their bigquery projects using the API.

ROOT CAUSE

The incident was triggered by a configuration change in the search
infrastructure powering Cloud resource metadata search. The search
infrastructure sends ACL checks to a central ACL server to make sure the end
user has access to the Cloud resource metadata it plans to return. The
configuration change introduced a new field in the ACL check request, while
the central ACL server had not whitelisted the search infrastructure to send
that field, causing an outage in Cloud resource metadata search.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

At 12:26 PDT, Google Engineers rolled out the configuration change. Our
automated release validation system rejected the change due to a high rate of
errors. Around 14:16 PDT, an unrelated change was made to the same search
infrastructure which triggered a bug that disabled its automated release
validation system. This change also inadvertently picked up the prior
configuration change and due to the lack of automated release validation, the
change was successfully propagated to production. Within a span of few
minutes, several engineering teams were automatically alerted to the situation
and began the mitigation process.

The issue was fully mitigated at 15:11 PDT when the configuration change was
rolled back.

We apologize again for the inconvenience caused. We are taking immediate steps
to prevent recurrence and improve reliability in the future, including:

Fixing the bug that inadvertently disabled the canary analysis system.
Improving process around pushing changes that involve several dependencies.
Improving testing and staging alerts to catch issues of this nature before
they reach production.  
  
| Jun 27, 2018 | 15:23 |

The issue impacting the ability to list projects and organizations has been
resolved for all affected users as of 15:16 US/Pacific. We will conduct an
internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our
systems to help prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more
detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal
investigation.  
  
|

The issue impacting the ability to list projects and organizations has been
resolved for all affected users as of 15:16 US/Pacific. We will conduct an
internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our
systems to help prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more
detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal
investigation.  
  
| Jun 27, 2018 | 15:13 |

We are experiencing an issue impacting the ability of customers to list
projects and organzations beginning at Wednesday, 2018-06-27 14:34 US/Pacific.
Current data indicate(s) that approximately 75% of all GCP customers are
affected by this issue. For everyone who is affected, we apologize for the
disruption. We will provide an update by Wednesday, 2018-06-27 16:13
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue impacting the ability of customers to list
projects and organzations beginning at Wednesday, 2018-06-27 14:34 US/Pacific.
Current data indicate(s) that approximately 75% of all GCP customers are
affected by this issue. For everyone who is affected, we apologize for the
disruption. We will provide an update by Wednesday, 2018-06-27 16:13
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Jun 27, 2018 | 14:45 |

We are investigating an issue with Identity & Access Management. We will
provide more information by Wednesday, 2018-06-27 15:00 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating an issue with Identity & Access Management. We will
provide more information by Wednesday, 2018-06-27 15:00 US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()
  * [About](https://cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard)

  *  

