# [](//cloud.google.com)

March 11, 2020  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Cloud Networking](/incident/cloud-networking/19005)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Cloud Networking Incident #19005

Google Cloud Networking issue with Cloud Routers in us-east4

Incident began at **2019-03-06 23:37** and ended at **2019-03-07 08:14** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Mar 12, 2019 | 13:43 |

# ISSUE SUMMARY

On Wednesday 6 March 2019, Google Cloud Router and Cloud Interconnect
experienced a service disruption in the us-east4 region for a duration of 8
hours and 34 minutes. Cloud VPN configurations with dynamic routes via Cloud
Router were impacted during this time. We apologize to our customers who were
impacted by this outage.

# DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Wednesday 6 March 2019 from 20:17 to Thursday 7 March 04:51 US/Pacific,
Cloud Router and Cloud Interconnect experienced a service disruption in us-
east4. Customers utilizing us-east4 were unable to advertise routes to their
Google Compute Engine (GCE) instances or learn routes from GCE.

Cloud VPN traffic with dynamic routes over Cloud Router and Cloud Interconnect
in us-east4 was impacted by this service disruption. Cloud VPN traffic over
pre-configured static routes was unaffected and continued to function without
disruption during this time.

# ROOT CAUSE

The Cloud Router control plane service assigns Cloud Router tasks to
individual customers and creates routes between those tasks and customer VPCs.
Individual Cloud Router tasks establish external BGP sessions and propagate
routes to and from the control plane service.

A disruption occurred during the rollout of a new version of the control plane
service in us-east4. This required the control plane to restart from a “cold”
state requiring it to validate all assignments of the Cloud Router tasks. The
control plane service did not successfully initialize and it was unable to
assign individual Cloud Router tasks in order to propagate routes between
those tasks and customer VPCs. Cloud Router tasks became temporarily
disassociated with customers and BGP sessions were terminated. As a result,
Cloud VPN and Cloud Interconnect configurations that were dependent on Cloud
Router in us-east4 were unavailable during this time.

# REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google engineers were automatically alerted at 20:30 PST on 6 March 2019 and
immediately began an investigation. A fix for the control plane service was
tested, integrated, and rolled out on 7 March 2019 at 04:33 US/Pacific. The
control plane service fully recovered by 05:16 US/Pacific.

We are taking immediate steps to prevent recurrence. The issue that prevented
the control plane from restarting has been resolved. In order to ensure faster
incident detection, we are improving control plane service testing, the
instrumentation of Cloud Router tasks, and the control plane service
instrumentation.  
  
|

# ISSUE SUMMARY

On Wednesday 6 March 2019, Google Cloud Router and Cloud Interconnect
experienced a service disruption in the us-east4 region for a duration of 8
hours and 34 minutes. Cloud VPN configurations with dynamic routes via Cloud
Router were impacted during this time. We apologize to our customers who were
impacted by this outage.

# DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Wednesday 6 March 2019 from 20:17 to Thursday 7 March 04:51 US/Pacific,
Cloud Router and Cloud Interconnect experienced a service disruption in us-
east4. Customers utilizing us-east4 were unable to advertise routes to their
Google Compute Engine (GCE) instances or learn routes from GCE.

Cloud VPN traffic with dynamic routes over Cloud Router and Cloud Interconnect
in us-east4 was impacted by this service disruption. Cloud VPN traffic over
pre-configured static routes was unaffected and continued to function without
disruption during this time.

# ROOT CAUSE

The Cloud Router control plane service assigns Cloud Router tasks to
individual customers and creates routes between those tasks and customer VPCs.
Individual Cloud Router tasks establish external BGP sessions and propagate
routes to and from the control plane service.

A disruption occurred during the rollout of a new version of the control plane
service in us-east4. This required the control plane to restart from a “cold”
state requiring it to validate all assignments of the Cloud Router tasks. The
control plane service did not successfully initialize and it was unable to
assign individual Cloud Router tasks in order to propagate routes between
those tasks and customer VPCs. Cloud Router tasks became temporarily
disassociated with customers and BGP sessions were terminated. As a result,
Cloud VPN and Cloud Interconnect configurations that were dependent on Cloud
Router in us-east4 were unavailable during this time.

# REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google engineers were automatically alerted at 20:30 PST on 6 March 2019 and
immediately began an investigation. A fix for the control plane service was
tested, integrated, and rolled out on 7 March 2019 at 04:33 US/Pacific. The
control plane service fully recovered by 05:16 US/Pacific.

We are taking immediate steps to prevent recurrence. The issue that prevented
the control plane from restarting has been resolved. In order to ensure faster
incident detection, we are improving control plane service testing, the
instrumentation of Cloud Router tasks, and the control plane service
instrumentation.  
  
| Mar 07, 2019 | 08:14 |

The issue with Google Cloud Routers in us-east4 has been resolved for all
affected projects as of Thursday, 2019-03-07 7:55 US/Pacific. We will conduct
an internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to
our systems to help prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a
more detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal
investigation.  
  
|

The issue with Google Cloud Routers in us-east4 has been resolved for all
affected projects as of Thursday, 2019-03-07 7:55 US/Pacific. We will conduct
an internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to
our systems to help prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a
more detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal
investigation.  
  
| Mar 07, 2019 | 06:27 |

Our Engineering Team believes they have identified the root cause of the
errors and provided mitigation. The issue with Cloud Routers in us-east4
should be resolved for majority of our customers as of Thursday, 2019-03-07
06:08 US/Pacific. And we expect a full resolution in the near future. We will
provide another status update by Thursday, 2019-03-07 09:00 US/Pacific with
current details.  
  
|

Our Engineering Team believes they have identified the root cause of the
errors and provided mitigation. The issue with Cloud Routers in us-east4
should be resolved for majority of our customers as of Thursday, 2019-03-07
06:08 US/Pacific. And we expect a full resolution in the near future. We will
provide another status update by Thursday, 2019-03-07 09:00 US/Pacific with
current details.  
  
| Mar 07, 2019 | 05:08 |

Our Engineering Team believes they have identified the root cause of the
errors and provided mitigation. The issue with Cloud Routers in us-east4
should be resolved for majority of our customers as of Thursday, 2019-03-07
05:00 US/Pacific. And we expect a full resolution in the near future. We will
provide another status update by Thursday, 2019-03-07 06:30 US/Pacific with
current details.  
  
|

Our Engineering Team believes they have identified the root cause of the
errors and provided mitigation. The issue with Cloud Routers in us-east4
should be resolved for majority of our customers as of Thursday, 2019-03-07
05:00 US/Pacific. And we expect a full resolution in the near future. We will
provide another status update by Thursday, 2019-03-07 06:30 US/Pacific with
current details.  
  
| Mar 07, 2019 | 04:31 |

We are experiencing an issue with Google Cloud Networking beginning at
Wednesday, 2019-03-06 21:15 US/Pacific. Current investigation indicates that
approximately 100% of Cloud Router in us-east4 region are affected by this
issue. Users will experience BGP sessions down on all of their Cloud Router
enabled VPN tunnels and Cloud Interconnect VLAN Attachments in us-east4
region. Further us-east4 subnets might be not redistributed to other regions
as part of VPC Global routing mode, thus making this region unreachable over
Interconnect. As a workaround customers can setup a Cloud VPN without Cloud
Router betwen us-east4 and their on-premise network. Cloud Console might be
timing out for getting Cloud Router related status information, please use
gcloud instead. Other regions are not affected. The engineering team is
investigating the issue and we will provide another status update by Thursday,
2019-03-07 05:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with Google Cloud Networking beginning at
Wednesday, 2019-03-06 21:15 US/Pacific. Current investigation indicates that
approximately 100% of Cloud Router in us-east4 region are affected by this
issue. Users will experience BGP sessions down on all of their Cloud Router
enabled VPN tunnels and Cloud Interconnect VLAN Attachments in us-east4
region. Further us-east4 subnets might be not redistributed to other regions
as part of VPC Global routing mode, thus making this region unreachable over
Interconnect. As a workaround customers can setup a Cloud VPN without Cloud
Router betwen us-east4 and their on-premise network. Cloud Console might be
timing out for getting Cloud Router related status information, please use
gcloud instead. Other regions are not affected. The engineering team is
investigating the issue and we will provide another status update by Thursday,
2019-03-07 05:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Mar 07, 2019 | 03:31 |

We are experiencing an issue with Google Cloud Networking beginning at
Wednesday, 2019-03-06 21:15 US/Pacific. Current investigation indicates that
approximately 100% of Cloud Router in us-east4 region are affected by this
issue. Users will experience BGP sessions down on all of their Cloud Router
enabled VPN tunnels and Cloud Interconnect links in us-east4 region. Further
us-east4 subnets might be not redistributed to other regions as part of VPC
Global routing mode, thus making this region unreachable over Interconnect. As
a workaround customers can setup a Cloud VPN without Cloud Router betwen us-
east4 and their on-premise network. Other regions are not affected. The
engineering team is investigating the issue and we will provide another status
update by Thursday, 2019-03-07 04:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with Google Cloud Networking beginning at
Wednesday, 2019-03-06 21:15 US/Pacific. Current investigation indicates that
approximately 100% of Cloud Router in us-east4 region are affected by this
issue. Users will experience BGP sessions down on all of their Cloud Router
enabled VPN tunnels and Cloud Interconnect links in us-east4 region. Further
us-east4 subnets might be not redistributed to other regions as part of VPC
Global routing mode, thus making this region unreachable over Interconnect. As
a workaround customers can setup a Cloud VPN without Cloud Router betwen us-
east4 and their on-premise network. Other regions are not affected. The
engineering team is investigating the issue and we will provide another status
update by Thursday, 2019-03-07 04:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Mar 07, 2019 | 02:31 |

We are experiencing an issue with Google Cloud Networking beginning at
Wednesday, 2019-03-06 21:15 US/Pacific. Current investigation indicates that
approximately 100% of Cloud Router in us-east4 region are affected by this
issue. Users will experience BGP sessions down on all of their Cloud Router
enabled VPN tunnels and Cloud Interconnect links in us-east4 region. Other
regions are not affected. The engineering team is investigating the issue and
we will provide another status update by Thursday, 2019-03-07 03:30 US/Pacific
with current details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with Google Cloud Networking beginning at
Wednesday, 2019-03-06 21:15 US/Pacific. Current investigation indicates that
approximately 100% of Cloud Router in us-east4 region are affected by this
issue. Users will experience BGP sessions down on all of their Cloud Router
enabled VPN tunnels and Cloud Interconnect links in us-east4 region. Other
regions are not affected. The engineering team is investigating the issue and
we will provide another status update by Thursday, 2019-03-07 03:30 US/Pacific
with current details.  
  
| Mar 07, 2019 | 00:40 |

We are experiencing an issue with Google Cloud Networking beginning at
Wednesday, 2019-03-06 21:15 US/Pacific. Current investigation indicates that
approximately 100% of Cloud Router users in us-east4 region are affected by
this issue. Users will experience BGP sessions down on all of their Cloud
Router enabled VPN tunnels and Cloud Interconnect links in us-east4 region.
Other regions are not affected. We will provide another status update by
Thursday, 2019-03-07 02:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with Google Cloud Networking beginning at
Wednesday, 2019-03-06 21:15 US/Pacific. Current investigation indicates that
approximately 100% of Cloud Router users in us-east4 region are affected by
this issue. Users will experience BGP sessions down on all of their Cloud
Router enabled VPN tunnels and Cloud Interconnect links in us-east4 region.
Other regions are not affected. We will provide another status update by
Thursday, 2019-03-07 02:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Mar 06, 2019 | 23:42 |

We are experiencing an issue with Google Cloud Networking beginning at
Wednesday, 2019-03-06 21:15 US/Pacific. Current investigation indicates that
approximately 100% of Cloud Router users in us-east4 region are affected by
this issue. Users will experience BGP sessions down on all of their Cloud
Router enabled VPN tunnels and Cloud Interconnect links in us-east4 region.
Other regions are not affected. We will provide another status update by
Thursday, 2019-03-07 00:40 US/Pacific with current details  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with Google Cloud Networking beginning at
Wednesday, 2019-03-06 21:15 US/Pacific. Current investigation indicates that
approximately 100% of Cloud Router users in us-east4 region are affected by
this issue. Users will experience BGP sessions down on all of their Cloud
Router enabled VPN tunnels and Cloud Interconnect links in us-east4 region.
Other regions are not affected. We will provide another status update by
Thursday, 2019-03-07 00:40 US/Pacific with current details  
  
| Mar 06, 2019 | 23:37 |

We are still seeing errors on the services responsible for the Cloud Router
BGP issue in us-east4 region. Our Engineering team is still working on the
mitigation at the moment. We will provide another status update by Thursday,
2019-03-07 00:40 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still seeing errors on the services responsible for the Cloud Router
BGP issue in us-east4 region. Our Engineering team is still working on the
mitigation at the moment. We will provide another status update by Thursday,
2019-03-07 00:40 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Mar 06, 2019 | 23:37 |

We've received a report of an issue with Google Cloud Networking  
  
|

We've received a report of an issue with Google Cloud Networking  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()
  * [About](https://cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard)

  *  

