# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

October 31, 2017  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Cloud SQL](/incident/cloud-sql/17012)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Cloud SQL Incident #17012

Issue With Second Generation Cloud SQL Instance Creation

Incident began at **2016-10-31 13:11** and ended at **2016-10-31 15:15** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Nov 03, 2016 | 21:43 |

SUMMARY:

On Monday, 31 October 2016, 73% of requests to create new subscriptions for
Google Cloud Pub/Sub failed for a duration of 124 minutes. Creation of new
Cloud SQL Second Generation instances also failed during this incident.

If your service or application was affected, we apologize. We have conducted a
detailed review of the causes of this incident and are ensuring that we apply
the appropriate fixes so that it will not recur.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Monday, 31 October 2016 from 13:11 to 15:15 PDT, 73% of requests to create
new subscriptions for Google Cloud Pub/Sub failed.

0.1% of pull requests experienced latencies of up to 4 minutes for end-to-end
message delivery.

Creation of all new Cloud SQL Second Generation instances also failed during
this incident. Existing instances were not affected.

ROOT CAUSE:

At 13:08, a system in the Cloud Pub/Sub control plane experienced a
connectivity issue to its persistent storage layer for a duration of 83
seconds. This caused a queue of storage requests to build up. When the storage
layer re-connected, the queued requests were executed, which exceeded the
available processing quota for the storage system. The system entered a
feedback loop in which storage requests continued to queue up leading to
further latency increases and more queued requests. The system was unable to
exit from this state until additional capacity was added.

Creation of a new Cloud SQL Second Generation instance requires a new Cloud
Pub/Sub subscription.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

Our monitoring systems detected the outage and paged oncall engineers at
13:19. We determined root cause at 14:05 and acquired additional storage
capacity for the Pub/Sub control plane at 14:42. The outage ended at 15:15
when this capacity became available.

To prevent this issue from recurring, we have already increased the storage
capacity for the Cloud Pub/Sub control plane. We will change the retry
behavior of the control plane to prevent a feedback loop if storage quota is
temporarily exceeded. We will also improve our monitoring to ensure we can
determine root cause for this type of failure more quickly in future.

We apologize for the inconvenience this issue caused our customers.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

On Monday, 31 October 2016, 73% of requests to create new subscriptions for
Google Cloud Pub/Sub failed for a duration of 124 minutes. Creation of new
Cloud SQL Second Generation instances also failed during this incident.

If your service or application was affected, we apologize. We have conducted a
detailed review of the causes of this incident and are ensuring that we apply
the appropriate fixes so that it will not recur.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Monday, 31 October 2016 from 13:11 to 15:15 PDT, 73% of requests to create
new subscriptions for Google Cloud Pub/Sub failed.

0.1% of pull requests experienced latencies of up to 4 minutes for end-to-end
message delivery.

Creation of all new Cloud SQL Second Generation instances also failed during
this incident. Existing instances were not affected.

ROOT CAUSE:

At 13:08, a system in the Cloud Pub/Sub control plane experienced a
connectivity issue to its persistent storage layer for a duration of 83
seconds. This caused a queue of storage requests to build up. When the storage
layer re-connected, the queued requests were executed, which exceeded the
available processing quota for the storage system. The system entered a
feedback loop in which storage requests continued to queue up leading to
further latency increases and more queued requests. The system was unable to
exit from this state until additional capacity was added.

Creation of a new Cloud SQL Second Generation instance requires a new Cloud
Pub/Sub subscription.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

Our monitoring systems detected the outage and paged oncall engineers at
13:19. We determined root cause at 14:05 and acquired additional storage
capacity for the Pub/Sub control plane at 14:42. The outage ended at 15:15
when this capacity became available.

To prevent this issue from recurring, we have already increased the storage
capacity for the Cloud Pub/Sub control plane. We will change the retry
behavior of the control plane to prevent a feedback loop if storage quota is
temporarily exceeded. We will also improve our monitoring to ensure we can
determine root cause for this type of failure more quickly in future.

We apologize for the inconvenience this issue caused our customers.  
  
| Oct 31, 2016 | 15:39 |

The issue with second generation Cloud SQL instance creation should be
resolved for all affected projects as of 15:15 PDT. We will conduct an
internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our
systems to prevent or minimize future recurrence.  
  
|

The issue with second generation Cloud SQL instance creation should be
resolved for all affected projects as of 15:15 PDT. We will conduct an
internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our
systems to prevent or minimize future recurrence.  
  
| Oct 31, 2016 | 15:01 |

We are continuing to investigate an issue with second generation Cloud SQL
instance creation. We will provide another update at 16:00 PDT.  
  
|

We are continuing to investigate an issue with second generation Cloud SQL
instance creation. We will provide another update at 16:00 PDT.  
  
| Oct 31, 2016 | 14:26 |

We are currently investigating an issue with second generation Cloud SQL
instance creation. We will provide an update with more information at 15:00
PDT.  
  
|

We are currently investigating an issue with second generation Cloud SQL
instance creation. We will provide an update with more information at 15:00
PDT.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

