# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 17, 2019  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Cloud Networking](/incident/cloud-networking/18003)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Cloud Networking Incident #18003

We are investigating an issue with Google Cloud Networking affecting
connectivity in us-central1 and europe-west3. We will provide more information
by 12:15pm US/Pacific.

Incident began at **2018-01-18 09:52** and ended at **2018-01-18 11:26** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Feb 16, 2018 | 16:42 |

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Sunday 18 January 2018, Google Compute Engine networking experienced a
network programming failure. The two impacts of this incident included the
autoscaler not scaling instance groups, as well as migrated and newly-created
VMs not communicating with VMs in other zones for a duration of up to 93
minutes. We apologize for the impact this event had on your applications and
projects, and we will carefully investigate the causes and implement measures
to prevent recurrences.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Sunday 18 January 2018, Google Compute Engine network provisioning updates
failed in the following zones: europe-west3-a for 34 minutes (09:52 AM to
10:21 AM PT) us-central1-b for 79 minutes (09:57 AM to 11:16 AM PT) asia-
northeast1-a for 93 minutes (09:53 AM to 11:26 AM PT)

Propagation of Google Compute Engine networking configuration for newly
created and migrated VMs is handled by two components. The first is
responsible for providing a complete list of VM’s, networks, firewall rules,
and scaling decisions. The second component provides a stream of updates for
the components in a specific zone.

During the affected period, the first component failed to return data. VMs in
the affected zones were unable to communicate with newly-created or migrated
VMs in another zone in the same private GCE network. VMs in the same zone were
unaffected because they are updated by the streaming component.

The autoscaler service also relies upon data from the failed first component
to scale instance groups; without updates from that component, it could not
make scaling decisions for the affected zones.

ROOT CAUSE

A stuck process failed to provide updates to the Compute Engine control plane.
Automatic failover was unable to force-stop the process, and required manual
failover to restore normal operation.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

The engineering team was alerted when the propagation of network configuration
information stalled. They manually failed over to the replacement task to
restore normal operation of the data persistence layer.

To prevent another occurrence of this incident, we are taking the following
actions: We still stop VM migrations if the configuration data is stale.
Modify the data persistence layer to re-resolve their peers during long-
running processes, to allow failover to replacement tasks.  
  
|

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Sunday 18 January 2018, Google Compute Engine networking experienced a
network programming failure. The two impacts of this incident included the
autoscaler not scaling instance groups, as well as migrated and newly-created
VMs not communicating with VMs in other zones for a duration of up to 93
minutes. We apologize for the impact this event had on your applications and
projects, and we will carefully investigate the causes and implement measures
to prevent recurrences.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Sunday 18 January 2018, Google Compute Engine network provisioning updates
failed in the following zones: europe-west3-a for 34 minutes (09:52 AM to
10:21 AM PT) us-central1-b for 79 minutes (09:57 AM to 11:16 AM PT) asia-
northeast1-a for 93 minutes (09:53 AM to 11:26 AM PT)

Propagation of Google Compute Engine networking configuration for newly
created and migrated VMs is handled by two components. The first is
responsible for providing a complete list of VM’s, networks, firewall rules,
and scaling decisions. The second component provides a stream of updates for
the components in a specific zone.

During the affected period, the first component failed to return data. VMs in
the affected zones were unable to communicate with newly-created or migrated
VMs in another zone in the same private GCE network. VMs in the same zone were
unaffected because they are updated by the streaming component.

The autoscaler service also relies upon data from the failed first component
to scale instance groups; without updates from that component, it could not
make scaling decisions for the affected zones.

ROOT CAUSE

A stuck process failed to provide updates to the Compute Engine control plane.
Automatic failover was unable to force-stop the process, and required manual
failover to restore normal operation.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

The engineering team was alerted when the propagation of network configuration
information stalled. They manually failed over to the replacement task to
restore normal operation of the data persistence layer.

To prevent another occurrence of this incident, we are taking the following
actions: We still stop VM migrations if the configuration data is stale.
Modify the data persistence layer to re-resolve their peers during long-
running processes, to allow failover to replacement tasks.  
  
| Jan 18, 2018 | 12:01 |

The issue with Google Cloud Networking connectivity has been resolved for all
affected zones in europe-west3, us-central1, and asia-northeast1 as of 11:26am
US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make
appropriate improvements to our systems to help prevent or minimize future
recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this incident once we
have completed our internal investigation.  
  
|

The issue with Google Cloud Networking connectivity has been resolved for all
affected zones in europe-west3, us-central1, and asia-northeast1 as of 11:26am
US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make
appropriate improvements to our systems to help prevent or minimize future
recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this incident once we
have completed our internal investigation.  
  
| Jan 18, 2018 | 11:23 |

We are investigating an issue with Google Cloud Networking affecting
connectivity in us-central1 and europe-west3. We will provide more information
by 12:15pm US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating an issue with Google Cloud Networking affecting
connectivity in us-central1 and europe-west3. We will provide more information
by 12:15pm US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

