# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

May 22, 2019  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Cloud Networking](/incident/cloud-networking/18009)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Cloud Networking Incident #18009

GCE Networking issue in us-east4

Incident began at **2018-05-16 19:24** and ended at **2018-05-16 20:17** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| May 22, 2018 | 13:32 |

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Wednesday 16 May 2018, Google Cloud Networking experienced loss of
connectivity to external IP addresses located in us-east4 for a duration of 58
minutes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Wednesday 16 May 2018 from 18:43 to 19:41 PDT, Google Compute Engine,
Google Cloud VPN, and Google Cloud Network Load Balancers hosted in the us-
east4 region experienced 100% packet loss from the internet and other GCP
regions. Google Dedicated Interconnect Attachments located in us-east4 also
experienced loss of connectivity.

ROOT CAUSE

Every zone in Google Cloud Platform advertises several sets of IP addresses to
the Internet via BGP. Some of these IP addresses are global and are advertised
from every zone, others are regional and advertised only from zones in the
region. The software that controls the advertisement of these IP addresses
contained a race condition during application startup that would cause
regional IP addresses to be filtered out and withdrawn from a zone. During a
routine binary rollout of this software, the race condition was triggered in
each of the three zones in the us-east4 region. Traffic continued to be routed
until the last zone received the rollout and stopped advertising regional
prefixes. Once the last zone stopped advertising the regional IP addresses,
external regional traffic stopped entering us-east4.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google engineers were alerted to the problem within one minute and as soon as
investigation pointed to a problem with the BGP advertisements, a rollback of
the binary in the us-east4 region was created to mitigate the issue. Once the
rollback proved effective, the original rollout was paused globally to prevent
any further issues.

We are taking the following steps to prevent the issue from happening again.
We are adding additional monitoring which will provide better context in
future alerts to allow us to diagnose issues faster. We also plan on improving
the debuggability of the software that controls the BGP advertisements.
Additionally, we will be reviewing the rollout policy for these types of
software changes so we can detect issues before they impact an entire region.

We apologize for this incident and we recognize that regional outages like
this should be rare and quickly rectified. We are taking immediate steps to
prevent recurrence and improve reliability in the future.  
  
|

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Wednesday 16 May 2018, Google Cloud Networking experienced loss of
connectivity to external IP addresses located in us-east4 for a duration of 58
minutes.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Wednesday 16 May 2018 from 18:43 to 19:41 PDT, Google Compute Engine,
Google Cloud VPN, and Google Cloud Network Load Balancers hosted in the us-
east4 region experienced 100% packet loss from the internet and other GCP
regions. Google Dedicated Interconnect Attachments located in us-east4 also
experienced loss of connectivity.

ROOT CAUSE

Every zone in Google Cloud Platform advertises several sets of IP addresses to
the Internet via BGP. Some of these IP addresses are global and are advertised
from every zone, others are regional and advertised only from zones in the
region. The software that controls the advertisement of these IP addresses
contained a race condition during application startup that would cause
regional IP addresses to be filtered out and withdrawn from a zone. During a
routine binary rollout of this software, the race condition was triggered in
each of the three zones in the us-east4 region. Traffic continued to be routed
until the last zone received the rollout and stopped advertising regional
prefixes. Once the last zone stopped advertising the regional IP addresses,
external regional traffic stopped entering us-east4.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google engineers were alerted to the problem within one minute and as soon as
investigation pointed to a problem with the BGP advertisements, a rollback of
the binary in the us-east4 region was created to mitigate the issue. Once the
rollback proved effective, the original rollout was paused globally to prevent
any further issues.

We are taking the following steps to prevent the issue from happening again.
We are adding additional monitoring which will provide better context in
future alerts to allow us to diagnose issues faster. We also plan on improving
the debuggability of the software that controls the BGP advertisements.
Additionally, we will be reviewing the rollout policy for these types of
software changes so we can detect issues before they impact an entire region.

We apologize for this incident and we recognize that regional outages like
this should be rare and quickly rectified. We are taking immediate steps to
prevent recurrence and improve reliability in the future.  
  
| May 16, 2018 | 20:17 |

The issue with GCE Networking (affecting GCE, GKE, Cloud VPN and Cloud Private
Interconnect) in us-east4 region has been resolved for all affected users as
of Wednesday, 2018-05-16 19:40 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal
investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems
to help prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed
analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
|

The issue with GCE Networking (affecting GCE, GKE, Cloud VPN and Cloud Private
Interconnect) in us-east4 region has been resolved for all affected users as
of Wednesday, 2018-05-16 19:40 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal
investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems
to help prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed
analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
| May 16, 2018 | 19:59 |

The issue with GCE Networking (affecting GCE, GKE, Cloud VPN and Cloud Private
Interconnect) in us-east4 region should be resolved for the majority of users
and we expect a full resolution in the near future. We will provide another
status update by Wednesday, 2018-05-16 20:20 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

The issue with GCE Networking (affecting GCE, GKE, Cloud VPN and Cloud Private
Interconnect) in us-east4 region should be resolved for the majority of users
and we expect a full resolution in the near future. We will provide another
status update by Wednesday, 2018-05-16 20:20 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| May 16, 2018 | 19:38 |

Mitigation work is currently underway by our Engineering Team. We will provide
another status update by Wednesday, 2018-05-16 20:10 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

Mitigation work is currently underway by our Engineering Team. We will provide
another status update by Wednesday, 2018-05-16 20:10 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| May 16, 2018 | 19:24 |

We are investigating an issue with GCE Networking in us-east4 region affecting
GCE VMs, GKE, Cloud VPN and Cloud Private Interconnect resulting in network
packet loss. We will provide more information by Wednesday, 2018-05-16 19:43
US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating an issue with GCE Networking in us-east4 region affecting
GCE VMs, GKE, Cloud VPN and Cloud Private Interconnect resulting in network
packet loss. We will provide more information by Wednesday, 2018-05-16 19:43
US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

