# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

March 30, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Cloud Pub/Sub](/incident/cloud-pubsub/17001)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Cloud Pub/Sub Incident #17001

Issues with Cloud Pub/Sub

Incident began at **2017-03-21 21:22** and ended at **2017-03-21 22:02** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Mar 29, 2017 | 22:19 |

ISSUE SUMMARY On Tuesday 21 March 2017, new connections to Cloud Pub/Sub
experienced high latency leading to timeouts and elevated error rates for a
duration of 95 minutes. Connections established before the start of this issue
were not affected. If your service or application was affected, we apologize –
this is not the level of quality and reliability we strive to offer you, and
we are taking immediate steps to improve the platform’s performance and
availability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT On Tuesday 21 March 2017 from 21:08 to 22:43
US/Pacific, Cloud Pub/Sub publish, pull and ack methods experienced elevated
latency, leading to timeouts. The average error rate for the issue duration
was 0.66%. The highest error rate occurred at 21:43, when the Pub/Sub publish
error rate peaked at 4.1%, the ack error rate reached 5.7% and the pull error
rate was 0.02%.

ROOT CAUSE The issue was caused by the rollout of a storage system used by the
Pub/Sub service. As part of this rollout, some servers were taken out of
service, and as planned, their load was redirected to remaining servers.
However, an unexpected imbalance in key distribution led some of the remaining
servers to become overloaded. The Pub/Sub service was then unable to retrieve
the status required to route new connections for the affected methods.
Additionally, some Pub/Sub servers didn’t recover promptly after the storage
system had been stabilized and required individual restarts to fully recover.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION Google engineers were alerted by automated
monitoring seven minutes after initial impact. At 21:24, they had correlated
the issue with the storage system rollout and stopped it from proceeding
further. At 21:41, engineers restarted some of the storage servers, which
improved systemic availability. Observed latencies for Pub/Sub were still
elevated, so at 21:54, engineers commenced restarting other Pub/Sub servers,
restoring service to 90% of users. At 22:29 a final batch was restarted,
restoring the Pub/Sub service to all.

To prevent a recurrence of the issue, Google engineers are creating safeguards
to limit the number of keys managed by each server. They are also improving
the availability of Pub/Sub servers to respond to requests even when in an
unhealthy state. Finally they are deploying enhancements to the Pub/Sub
service to operate when the storage system is unavailable.  
  
|

ISSUE SUMMARY On Tuesday 21 March 2017, new connections to Cloud Pub/Sub
experienced high latency leading to timeouts and elevated error rates for a
duration of 95 minutes. Connections established before the start of this issue
were not affected. If your service or application was affected, we apologize –
this is not the level of quality and reliability we strive to offer you, and
we are taking immediate steps to improve the platform’s performance and
availability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT On Tuesday 21 March 2017 from 21:08 to 22:43
US/Pacific, Cloud Pub/Sub publish, pull and ack methods experienced elevated
latency, leading to timeouts. The average error rate for the issue duration
was 0.66%. The highest error rate occurred at 21:43, when the Pub/Sub publish
error rate peaked at 4.1%, the ack error rate reached 5.7% and the pull error
rate was 0.02%.

ROOT CAUSE The issue was caused by the rollout of a storage system used by the
Pub/Sub service. As part of this rollout, some servers were taken out of
service, and as planned, their load was redirected to remaining servers.
However, an unexpected imbalance in key distribution led some of the remaining
servers to become overloaded. The Pub/Sub service was then unable to retrieve
the status required to route new connections for the affected methods.
Additionally, some Pub/Sub servers didn’t recover promptly after the storage
system had been stabilized and required individual restarts to fully recover.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION Google engineers were alerted by automated
monitoring seven minutes after initial impact. At 21:24, they had correlated
the issue with the storage system rollout and stopped it from proceeding
further. At 21:41, engineers restarted some of the storage servers, which
improved systemic availability. Observed latencies for Pub/Sub were still
elevated, so at 21:54, engineers commenced restarting other Pub/Sub servers,
restoring service to 90% of users. At 22:29 a final batch was restarted,
restoring the Pub/Sub service to all.

To prevent a recurrence of the issue, Google engineers are creating safeguards
to limit the number of keys managed by each server. They are also improving
the availability of Pub/Sub servers to respond to requests even when in an
unhealthy state. Finally they are deploying enhancements to the Pub/Sub
service to operate when the storage system is unavailable.  
  
| Mar 21, 2017 | 22:40 |

The issue with Pub/Sub high latency has been resolved for all affected
projects as of 22:02 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of
this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to help prevent or
minimize future recurrence.  
  
|

The issue with Pub/Sub high latency has been resolved for all affected
projects as of 22:02 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of
this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to help prevent or
minimize future recurrence.  
  
| Mar 21, 2017 | 21:47 |

We are investigating an issue with Pub/Sub. We will provide more information
by 22:40 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating an issue with Pub/Sub. We will provide more information
by 22:40 US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

