# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

August 29, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Cloud SQL](/incident/cloud-sql/17017)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Cloud SQL Incident #17017

Cloud SQL connectivity issue in Europe-West1

Incident began at **2017-08-15 17:20** and ended at **2017-08-15 20:55** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Aug 29, 2017 | 13:00 |

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Tuesday 15 August 2017, Google Cloud SQL experienced issues in the europe-
west1 zones for a duration of 3 hours and 35 minutes. During this time, new
connections from Google App Engine (GAE) or Cloud SQL Proxy would timeout and
return an error. In addition, Cloud SQL connections with ephemeral certs that
had been open for more than one hour timed out and returned an error. We
apologize to our customers whose projects were affected – we are taking
immediate action to improve the platform’s performance and availability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Tuesday 15 August 2017 from 17:20 to 20:55 PDT, 43.1% of Cloud SQL
instances located in europe-west1 were unable to be managed with the Google
Cloud SQL Admin API to create or make changes. Customers who connected from
GAE or used the Cloud SQL Proxy (which includes most connections from Google
Container Engine) were denied new connections to their database.

ROOT CAUSE

The issue surfaced through a combination of a spike in error rates internal to
the Cloud SQL service and a lack of available resources in the Cloud SQL
control plane for europe-west1.

By way of background, the Cloud SQL system uses a database to store metadata
for customer instances. This metadata is used for validating new connections.
Validation will fail if the load on the database is heavy.

In this case, Cloud SQL’s automatic retry logic overloaded the control plane
and consumed all the available Cloud SQL control plane processing in europe-
west1. This in turn made the Cloud SQL Proxy and front end client server
pairing reject connections when ACLs and certificate information stored in the
Cloud SQL control plane could not be accessed.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google engineers were paged at 17:20 when automated monitoring detected an
increase in control plane errors. Initial troubleshooting steps did not
sufficiently isolate the issue and reduce the database load. Engineers then
disabled non-critical control plane services for Cloud SQL to shed load and
allow the service to catch up. They then began a rollback to the previous
configuration to bring back the system to a healthy state.

This issue has raised technical issues which hinder our intended level of
service and reliability for the Cloud SQL service. We have begun a thorough
investigation of similar potential failure patterns in order to avoid this
type of service disruption in the future. We are adding additional monitoring
to quickly detect metadata database timeouts which caused the control plane
outage. We are also working to make the Cloud SQL control plane services more
resilient to metadata database latency by making the service not directly call
the database for connection validation.

We realize this event may have impacted your organization and we apologize for
this disruption. Thank you again for your business with Google Cloud SQL.  
  
|

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Tuesday 15 August 2017, Google Cloud SQL experienced issues in the europe-
west1 zones for a duration of 3 hours and 35 minutes. During this time, new
connections from Google App Engine (GAE) or Cloud SQL Proxy would timeout and
return an error. In addition, Cloud SQL connections with ephemeral certs that
had been open for more than one hour timed out and returned an error. We
apologize to our customers whose projects were affected – we are taking
immediate action to improve the platform’s performance and availability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Tuesday 15 August 2017 from 17:20 to 20:55 PDT, 43.1% of Cloud SQL
instances located in europe-west1 were unable to be managed with the Google
Cloud SQL Admin API to create or make changes. Customers who connected from
GAE or used the Cloud SQL Proxy (which includes most connections from Google
Container Engine) were denied new connections to their database.

ROOT CAUSE

The issue surfaced through a combination of a spike in error rates internal to
the Cloud SQL service and a lack of available resources in the Cloud SQL
control plane for europe-west1.

By way of background, the Cloud SQL system uses a database to store metadata
for customer instances. This metadata is used for validating new connections.
Validation will fail if the load on the database is heavy.

In this case, Cloud SQL’s automatic retry logic overloaded the control plane
and consumed all the available Cloud SQL control plane processing in europe-
west1. This in turn made the Cloud SQL Proxy and front end client server
pairing reject connections when ACLs and certificate information stored in the
Cloud SQL control plane could not be accessed.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google engineers were paged at 17:20 when automated monitoring detected an
increase in control plane errors. Initial troubleshooting steps did not
sufficiently isolate the issue and reduce the database load. Engineers then
disabled non-critical control plane services for Cloud SQL to shed load and
allow the service to catch up. They then began a rollback to the previous
configuration to bring back the system to a healthy state.

This issue has raised technical issues which hinder our intended level of
service and reliability for the Cloud SQL service. We have begun a thorough
investigation of similar potential failure patterns in order to avoid this
type of service disruption in the future. We are adding additional monitoring
to quickly detect metadata database timeouts which caused the control plane
outage. We are also working to make the Cloud SQL control plane services more
resilient to metadata database latency by making the service not directly call
the database for connection validation.

We realize this event may have impacted your organization and we apologize for
this disruption. Thank you again for your business with Google Cloud SQL.  
  
| Aug 15, 2017 | 21:26 |

The issue with Cloud SQL connectivity affecting connections from App Engine
and connections using the Cloud SQL Proxy in europe-west1 has been resolved
for all affected projects as of 20:55 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal
investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems
to help prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed
analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
|

The issue with Cloud SQL connectivity affecting connections from App Engine
and connections using the Cloud SQL Proxy in europe-west1 has been resolved
for all affected projects as of 20:55 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal
investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems
to help prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed
analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
| Aug 15, 2017 | 20:35 |

We are continuing to experience an issue with Cloud SQL connectivity,
affecting only connections from App Engine and connections using the Cloud SQL
Proxy, beginning at Tuesday, 2017-08-15 17:20 US/Pacific. Current
investigation indicates that instances running in Europe-West1 are affected by
this issue. Engineering is currently working on mitigating the situation. We
will provide an update by 22:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are continuing to experience an issue with Cloud SQL connectivity,
affecting only connections from App Engine and connections using the Cloud SQL
Proxy, beginning at Tuesday, 2017-08-15 17:20 US/Pacific. Current
investigation indicates that instances running in Europe-West1 are affected by
this issue. Engineering is currently working on mitigating the situation. We
will provide an update by 22:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Aug 15, 2017 | 19:35 |

We are continuing to experience an issue with Cloud SQL connectivity beginning
at Tuesday, 2017-08-15 17:20 US/Pacific. Current investigation indicates that
instances running in Europe-West1 are affected by this issue. Engineering is
currently working on mitigating the situation. We will provide an update by
20:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are continuing to experience an issue with Cloud SQL connectivity beginning
at Tuesday, 2017-08-15 17:20 US/Pacific. Current investigation indicates that
instances running in Europe-West1 are affected by this issue. Engineering is
currently working on mitigating the situation. We will provide an update by
20:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Aug 15, 2017 | 18:56 |

We are experiencing an issue with Cloud SQL connectivity beginning at Tuesday,
2017-08-15 17:20 US/Pacific. Current investigation indicates that instances
running in Europe-West1 are affected by this issue. For everyone who is
affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be experiencing. We will
provide an update by 19:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with Cloud SQL connectivity beginning at Tuesday,
2017-08-15 17:20 US/Pacific. Current investigation indicates that instances
running in Europe-West1 are affected by this issue. For everyone who is
affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be experiencing. We will
provide an update by 19:30 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

