# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 03, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Compute Engine](/incident/compute/15056)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Compute Engine Incident #15056

Google Compute Engine Persistent Disk issue in europe-west1-b

Incident began at **2015-08-13 09:25** and ended at **2015-08-16 09:35** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Aug 18, 2015 | 02:18 |

SUMMARY:

From Thursday 13 August 2015 to Monday 17 August 2015, errors occurred on a
small proportion of Google Compute Engine persistent disks in the europe-
west1-b zone. The affected disks sporadically returned I/O errors to their
attached GCE instances, and also typically returned errors for management
operations such as snapshot creation. In a very small fraction of cases (less
than 0.000001% of PD space in europe-west1-b), there was permanent data loss.

Google takes availability very seriously, and the durability of storage is our
highest priority. We apologise to all our customers who were affected by this
exceptional incident. We have conducted a thorough analysis of the issue, in
which we identified several contributory factors across the full range of our
hardware and software technology stack, and we are working to improve these to
maximise the reliability of GCE's whole storage layer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

From 09:19 PDT on Thursday 13 August 2015, to Monday 17 August 2015, some
Standard Persistent Disks in the europe-west1-b zone began to return sporadic
I/O errors to their connected GCE instances. In total, approximately 5% of the
Standard Persistent Disks in the zone experienced at least one I/O read or
write failure during the course of the incident. Some management operations on
the affected disks also failed, such as disk snapshot creation.

From the start of the incident, the number of affected disks progressively
declined as Google engineers carried out data recovery operations. By Monday
17 August, only a very small number of disks remained affected, totalling less
than 0.000001% of the space of allocated persistent disks in europe-west1-b.
In these cases, full recovery is not possible.

The issue only affected Standard Persistent Disks that existed when the
incident began at 09:19 PDT. There was no effect on Standard Persistent Disks
created after 09:19. SSD Persistent Disks, disk snapshots, and Local SSDs were
not affected by the incident. In particular, it was possible at all times to
recreate new Persistent Disks from existing snapshots.

ROOT CAUSE:

At 09:19 PDT on Thursday 13 August 2015, four successive lightning strikes on
the local utilities grid that powers our European datacenter caused a brief
loss of power to storage systems which host disk capacity for GCE instances in
the europe-west1-b zone. Although automatic auxiliary systems restored power
quickly, and the storage systems are designed with battery backup, some
recently written data was located on storage systems which were more
susceptible to power failure from extended or repeated battery drain. In
almost all cases the data was successfully committed to stable storage,
although manual intervention was required in order to restore the systems to
their normal serving state. However, in a very few cases, recent writes were
unrecoverable, leading to permanent data loss on the Persistent Disk.

This outage is wholly Google's responsibility. However, we would like to take
this opportunity to highlight an important reminder for our customers: GCE
instances and Persistent Disks within a zone exist in a single Google
datacenter and are therefore unavoidably vulnerable to datacenter-scale
disasters. Customers who need maximum availability should be prepared to
switch their operations to another GCE zone. For maximum durability we
recommend GCE snapshots and Google Cloud Storage as resilient, geographically
replicated repositories for your data.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

Google has an ongoing program of upgrading to storage hardware that is less
susceptible to the power failure mode that triggered this incident. Most
Persistent Disk storage is already running on this hardware. Since the
incident began, Google engineers have conducted a wide-ranging review across
all layers of the datacenter technology stack, from electrical distribution
systems through computing hardware to the software controlling the GCE
persistent disk layer. Several opportunities have been identified to increase
physical and procedural resilience, including:

Continue to upgrade our hardware to improve cache data retention during
transient power loss. Implement multiple orthogonal schemes to increase
Persistent Disk data durability for greater resilience. Improve response
procedures for system engineers during possible future incidents.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

From Thursday 13 August 2015 to Monday 17 August 2015, errors occurred on a
small proportion of Google Compute Engine persistent disks in the europe-
west1-b zone. The affected disks sporadically returned I/O errors to their
attached GCE instances, and also typically returned errors for management
operations such as snapshot creation. In a very small fraction of cases (less
than 0.000001% of PD space in europe-west1-b), there was permanent data loss.

Google takes availability very seriously, and the durability of storage is our
highest priority. We apologise to all our customers who were affected by this
exceptional incident. We have conducted a thorough analysis of the issue, in
which we identified several contributory factors across the full range of our
hardware and software technology stack, and we are working to improve these to
maximise the reliability of GCE's whole storage layer.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

From 09:19 PDT on Thursday 13 August 2015, to Monday 17 August 2015, some
Standard Persistent Disks in the europe-west1-b zone began to return sporadic
I/O errors to their connected GCE instances. In total, approximately 5% of the
Standard Persistent Disks in the zone experienced at least one I/O read or
write failure during the course of the incident. Some management operations on
the affected disks also failed, such as disk snapshot creation.

From the start of the incident, the number of affected disks progressively
declined as Google engineers carried out data recovery operations. By Monday
17 August, only a very small number of disks remained affected, totalling less
than 0.000001% of the space of allocated persistent disks in europe-west1-b.
In these cases, full recovery is not possible.

The issue only affected Standard Persistent Disks that existed when the
incident began at 09:19 PDT. There was no effect on Standard Persistent Disks
created after 09:19. SSD Persistent Disks, disk snapshots, and Local SSDs were
not affected by the incident. In particular, it was possible at all times to
recreate new Persistent Disks from existing snapshots.

ROOT CAUSE:

At 09:19 PDT on Thursday 13 August 2015, four successive lightning strikes on
the local utilities grid that powers our European datacenter caused a brief
loss of power to storage systems which host disk capacity for GCE instances in
the europe-west1-b zone. Although automatic auxiliary systems restored power
quickly, and the storage systems are designed with battery backup, some
recently written data was located on storage systems which were more
susceptible to power failure from extended or repeated battery drain. In
almost all cases the data was successfully committed to stable storage,
although manual intervention was required in order to restore the systems to
their normal serving state. However, in a very few cases, recent writes were
unrecoverable, leading to permanent data loss on the Persistent Disk.

This outage is wholly Google's responsibility. However, we would like to take
this opportunity to highlight an important reminder for our customers: GCE
instances and Persistent Disks within a zone exist in a single Google
datacenter and are therefore unavoidably vulnerable to datacenter-scale
disasters. Customers who need maximum availability should be prepared to
switch their operations to another GCE zone. For maximum durability we
recommend GCE snapshots and Google Cloud Storage as resilient, geographically
replicated repositories for your data.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

Google has an ongoing program of upgrading to storage hardware that is less
susceptible to the power failure mode that triggered this incident. Most
Persistent Disk storage is already running on this hardware. Since the
incident began, Google engineers have conducted a wide-ranging review across
all layers of the datacenter technology stack, from electrical distribution
systems through computing hardware to the software controlling the GCE
persistent disk layer. Several opportunities have been identified to increase
physical and procedural resilience, including:

Continue to upgrade our hardware to improve cache data retention during
transient power loss. Implement multiple orthogonal schemes to increase
Persistent Disk data durability for greater resilience. Improve response
procedures for system engineers during possible future incidents.  
  
| Aug 16, 2015 | 09:35 |

At present, less than 0.05% of PD's are experiencing read failures in europe-
west1-b. Neither restoring Persistent Disks from snapshots nor creating new
Persistent Disks have been affected. If your PD is one of those 0.05%
currently affected, you may restore it from a snapshot and continue using it
at full availability.

Given the low rate of read failures, this will be the final update for this
incident. Instead, the Cloud Support team will be reaching out to affected
customers within 3 business days. Please also feel free to proactively contact
support for more information.

We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate
improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will
provide a more detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our
internal investigation.  
  
|

At present, less than 0.05% of PD's are experiencing read failures in europe-
west1-b. Neither restoring Persistent Disks from snapshots nor creating new
Persistent Disks have been affected. If your PD is one of those 0.05%
currently affected, you may restore it from a snapshot and continue using it
at full availability.

Given the low rate of read failures, this will be the final update for this
incident. Instead, the Cloud Support team will be reaching out to affected
customers within 3 business days. Please also feel free to proactively contact
support for more information.

We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate
improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will
provide a more detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our
internal investigation.  
  
| Aug 14, 2015 | 16:53 |

At present, less than 0.05% of PD's are experiencing read failures in europe-
west1-b. Neither restoring Persistent Disks from snapshots nor creating new
Persistent Disks have been affected. If your PD is one of those 0.05%
currently affected, you may restore it from a snapshot and continue using it
at full availability.

Given the low rate of read failures, we will be decreasing the velocity of
updates. We will provide another status update on 17 August by 16:00
US/Pacific with current details. In addition, the Cloud Support team will be
reaching out to affected customers within 3 business days. Please also feel
free to proactively reach to Cloud Support for more information.  
  
|

At present, less than 0.05% of PD's are experiencing read failures in europe-
west1-b. Neither restoring Persistent Disks from snapshots nor creating new
Persistent Disks have been affected. If your PD is one of those 0.05%
currently affected, you may restore it from a snapshot and continue using it
at full availability.

Given the low rate of read failures, we will be decreasing the velocity of
updates. We will provide another status update on 17 August by 16:00
US/Pacific with current details. In addition, the Cloud Support team will be
reaching out to affected customers within 3 business days. Please also feel
free to proactively reach to Cloud Support for more information.  
  
| Aug 14, 2015 | 13:52 |

We are still working on restoring the full service for every Google Compute
Engine Persistent Disk in europe-west1-b. In terms of impact, less than 0.1%
of Google Compute Engine Persistent Disks in that zone have been experiencing
read failures on some of the blocks. Current data indicates than no more than
1% of PDs could be affected going forward.

Neither restoring Persistent Disks from snapshots nor creating new Persistent
Disks have been affected. If your PD is one of those 0.1% currently affected,
you may restore it from a snapshot and continue using it at full availability.

We will provide another status update by 16:00 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

We are still working on restoring the full service for every Google Compute
Engine Persistent Disk in europe-west1-b. In terms of impact, less than 0.1%
of Google Compute Engine Persistent Disks in that zone have been experiencing
read failures on some of the blocks. Current data indicates than no more than
1% of PDs could be affected going forward.

Neither restoring Persistent Disks from snapshots nor creating new Persistent
Disks have been affected. If your PD is one of those 0.1% currently affected,
you may restore it from a snapshot and continue using it at full availability.

We will provide another status update by 16:00 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Aug 14, 2015 | 11:04 |

We are still working on restoring the service of Google Compute Engine
Persistent Disks in europe-west1-b. We will provide another status update by
16:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still working on restoring the service of Google Compute Engine
Persistent Disks in europe-west1-b. We will provide another status update by
16:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Aug 14, 2015 | 08:19 |

We are still working on restoring the service of Google Compute Engine
Persistent Disks in europe-west1-b. We will provide another status update by
11:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still working on restoring the service of Google Compute Engine
Persistent Disks in europe-west1-b. We will provide another status update by
11:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Aug 14, 2015 | 02:59 |

We are still working on restoring the service of Google Compute Engine
Persistent Disks in europe-west1-b. We will provide another status update by
08:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still working on restoring the service of Google Compute Engine
Persistent Disks in europe-west1-b. We will provide another status update by
08:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Aug 13, 2015 | 22:56 |

We are still working on restoring the service of Google Compute Engine
Persistent Disks in europe-west1-b. We will provide another status update by
Aug 14 03:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still working on restoring the service of Google Compute Engine
Persistent Disks in europe-west1-b. We will provide another status update by
Aug 14 03:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Aug 13, 2015 | 18:57 |

We are still working on restoring the service of Google Compute Engine
Persistent Disks in europe-west1-b. We will provide another status update by
23:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still working on restoring the service of Google Compute Engine
Persistent Disks in europe-west1-b. We will provide another status update by
23:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Aug 13, 2015 | 15:06 |

We are still working on restoring the service of Google Compute Engine
Persistent Disks in europe-west1-b. We will provide another status update by
19:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still working on restoring the service of Google Compute Engine
Persistent Disks in europe-west1-b. We will provide another status update by
19:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Aug 13, 2015 | 13:00 |

We are still working on restoring the service of Google Compute Engine
Persistent Disks in europe-west1-b. Current data indicates that less than 1%
of PDs in europe-west1-b are susceptible to degraded performance because of
this issue. The service has been partially recovered.

Meanwhile, affected customers can restore from snapshots as a workaround
solution.

We will provide another status update by 15:00 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

We are still working on restoring the service of Google Compute Engine
Persistent Disks in europe-west1-b. Current data indicates that less than 1%
of PDs in europe-west1-b are susceptible to degraded performance because of
this issue. The service has been partially recovered.

Meanwhile, affected customers can restore from snapshots as a workaround
solution.

We will provide another status update by 15:00 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Aug 13, 2015 | 12:00 |

We are still actively working on mitigating the issue with Google Compute
Engine Persistent Disks in europe-west1-b beginning at Thursday, 2015-08-13
09:25 US/Pacific.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for the impact to your systems. We
will provide another status update by 13:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still actively working on mitigating the issue with Google Compute
Engine Persistent Disks in europe-west1-b beginning at Thursday, 2015-08-13
09:25 US/Pacific.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for the impact to your systems. We
will provide another status update by 13:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Aug 13, 2015 | 11:14 |

We are experiencing an issue with Google Compute Engine Persistent Disks in
europe-west1-b beginning at Thursday, 2015-08-13 09:25 US/Pacific. Customers
who have machines running in this zone may see read errors.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be
experiencing. We will provide an update by 12:00 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with Google Compute Engine Persistent Disks in
europe-west1-b beginning at Thursday, 2015-08-13 09:25 US/Pacific. Customers
who have machines running in this zone may see read errors.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be
experiencing. We will provide an update by 12:00 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

