# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 03, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Compute Engine](/incident/compute/15055)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Compute Engine Incident #15055

Google Cloud Compute difficulty reaching internet

Incident began at **2015-08-04 08:57** and ended at **2015-08-04 09:05** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Aug 05, 2015 | 12:47 |

SUMMARY:

On Tuesday 4 August 2015, incoming network traffic to Google Compute Engine
(GCE) was interrupted for 5 minutes. We are sorry for any impact this had on
our customers' services. We have identified the cause of the incident and we
are taking steps to avoid this class of problems in future.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Tuesday 4 August 2015 from 08:56 to 09:01 PDT, all incoming network packets
from the Internet to GCE public IP addresses were dropped. The incident
affected network load balancers and Google Cloud VPNs as well as the external
IP addresses of GCE instances.

Whilst packets from GCE to the Internet were not affected, the loss of return
traffic prevented the correct operation of TCP connections. There was no
effect on instance-to-instance traffic using GCE internal IP addresses.

ROOT CAUSE:

GCE's external network connectivity is provided by a Google core networking
component that supports many of Google's public services. A software
deployment for this system introduced a bug which failed to handle a specific
property of the configuration for GCE IP addresses. This led to the removal of
all inward-bound routes for GCE.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

The impact on GCE networking triggered immediate alerts, and Google engineers
restored service by rolling back the software deployment.

To avoid regression of the specific issue, Google engineers will extend
testing frameworks to include the GCE configuration property that triggered
the bug.

To increase our defence in depth against related issues in future, Google
engineers will also implement a number of technical and procedural measures,
including: increased engineer review of configuration changes, automatic
sanity-checks on route deployment changes, and protection of IP ranges
associated with GCE.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

On Tuesday 4 August 2015, incoming network traffic to Google Compute Engine
(GCE) was interrupted for 5 minutes. We are sorry for any impact this had on
our customers' services. We have identified the cause of the incident and we
are taking steps to avoid this class of problems in future.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Tuesday 4 August 2015 from 08:56 to 09:01 PDT, all incoming network packets
from the Internet to GCE public IP addresses were dropped. The incident
affected network load balancers and Google Cloud VPNs as well as the external
IP addresses of GCE instances.

Whilst packets from GCE to the Internet were not affected, the loss of return
traffic prevented the correct operation of TCP connections. There was no
effect on instance-to-instance traffic using GCE internal IP addresses.

ROOT CAUSE:

GCE's external network connectivity is provided by a Google core networking
component that supports many of Google's public services. A software
deployment for this system introduced a bug which failed to handle a specific
property of the configuration for GCE IP addresses. This led to the removal of
all inward-bound routes for GCE.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

The impact on GCE networking triggered immediate alerts, and Google engineers
restored service by rolling back the software deployment.

To avoid regression of the specific issue, Google engineers will extend
testing frameworks to include the GCE configuration property that triggered
the bug.

To increase our defence in depth against related issues in future, Google
engineers will also implement a number of technical and procedural measures,
including: increased engineer review of configuration changes, automatic
sanity-checks on route deployment changes, and protection of IP ranges
associated with GCE.  
  
| Aug 04, 2015 | 09:33 |

The issue with Google Compute Engine instances experiencing difficulty
reaching the internet between 8:57 to 9:05 US/Pacific is now resolved. We will
conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate
improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future recurrences. We will
provide a more detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our
internal investigation.  
  
|

The issue with Google Compute Engine instances experiencing difficulty
reaching the internet between 8:57 to 9:05 US/Pacific is now resolved. We will
conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate
improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future recurrences. We will
provide a more detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our
internal investigation.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

