# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 22, 2017  All services normal

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Compute Engine](/incident/compute/16003)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Compute Engine Incident #16003

Quotas were reset to default values for some Customers

Incident began at **2016-02-23 08:40** and ended at **2016-02-23 16:30** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Feb 25, 2016 | 14:47 |

SUMMARY:

On Tuesday 23 February 2016, for a duration of 10 hours and 6 minutes, 7.8% of
Google Compute Engine projects had reduced quotas. We know that the ability to
scale is vital to our customers, and apologize for preventing you from using
the resources you need.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Tuesday 23 February 2016 from 06:06 to 16:12 PST, 7.8% of Google Compute
Engine projects had quotas reduced. This impacted all quotas, including number
of cores, IP addresses and disk size. If reduced quota was applied to your
project and your usage reached this reduced quota you would have been unable
to create new resources during this incident. Any such attempt would have
resulted in a QUOTA_EXCEEDED error code with message "Quota 'XX_XX' exceeded.
Limit: N". Any resources that were already created were unaffected by this
issue.

ROOT CAUSE:

In order to maximize ease of use for Google Compute Engine customers, in some
cases we automatically raise resource quotas. We then provide exclusions to
ensure that no quotas previously raised are reduced. We occasionally tune the
algorithm to determine which quotas can be safely raised. This incident
occurred when one such change was made but a bug in the aforementioned
exclusion process allowed some projects to have their quotas reduced.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

As soon as Google engineers identified the cause of the issue the initiating
change was rolled back and quota changes were reverted. To provide faster
resolution to quota related issues in the future we are creating new automated
alerting and operational documentation. To prevent a recurrence of this
specific issue, we have fixed the bug in the exclusion process. To prevent
similar future issues, we are also creating a dry-run testing phase to verify
the impact quota system changes will have.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

On Tuesday 23 February 2016, for a duration of 10 hours and 6 minutes, 7.8% of
Google Compute Engine projects had reduced quotas. We know that the ability to
scale is vital to our customers, and apologize for preventing you from using
the resources you need.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Tuesday 23 February 2016 from 06:06 to 16:12 PST, 7.8% of Google Compute
Engine projects had quotas reduced. This impacted all quotas, including number
of cores, IP addresses and disk size. If reduced quota was applied to your
project and your usage reached this reduced quota you would have been unable
to create new resources during this incident. Any such attempt would have
resulted in a QUOTA_EXCEEDED error code with message "Quota 'XX_XX' exceeded.
Limit: N". Any resources that were already created were unaffected by this
issue.

ROOT CAUSE:

In order to maximize ease of use for Google Compute Engine customers, in some
cases we automatically raise resource quotas. We then provide exclusions to
ensure that no quotas previously raised are reduced. We occasionally tune the
algorithm to determine which quotas can be safely raised. This incident
occurred when one such change was made but a bug in the aforementioned
exclusion process allowed some projects to have their quotas reduced.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

As soon as Google engineers identified the cause of the issue the initiating
change was rolled back and quota changes were reverted. To provide faster
resolution to quota related issues in the future we are creating new automated
alerting and operational documentation. To prevent a recurrence of this
specific issue, we have fixed the bug in the exclusion process. To prevent
similar future issues, we are also creating a dry-run testing phase to verify
the impact quota system changes will have.  
  
| Feb 23, 2016 | 16:30 |

The issue with quotas being reset to default values should have been resolved
for all affected customers as of 16:30 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal
investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems
to prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed
analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
|

The issue with quotas being reset to default values should have been resolved
for all affected customers as of 16:30 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal
investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems
to prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed
analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
| Feb 23, 2016 | 15:30 |

The issue with quotas being reset to default values should have been resolved
for the majority of projects and we expect a full resolution in the near
future. We will provide another status update by 16:30 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

The issue with quotas being reset to default values should have been resolved
for the majority of projects and we expect a full resolution in the near
future. We will provide another status update by 16:30 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Feb 23, 2016 | 14:30 |

We are continuing to investigate the issue with quotas being reset to default
values for some customers. We'll provide a new update at 15:30 US / Pacific
time.  
  
|

We are continuing to investigate the issue with quotas being reset to default
values for some customers. We'll provide a new update at 15:30 US / Pacific
time.  
  
| Feb 23, 2016 | 13:30 |

We are continuing to investigate the issue with quotas being reset to default
values for some customers. We'll provide a new update at 14:30 US / Pacific
time.  
  
|

We are continuing to investigate the issue with quotas being reset to default
values for some customers. We'll provide a new update at 14:30 US / Pacific
time.  
  
| Feb 23, 2016 | 12:30 |

We are continuing to investigate the issue with quotas being reset to default
values for some customers. We'll provide a new update at 13:30 Pacific time  
  
|

We are continuing to investigate the issue with quotas being reset to default
values for some customers. We'll provide a new update at 13:30 Pacific time  
  
| Feb 23, 2016 | 11:30 |

We continue to investigate the problem with quotas being reset to default
values for some customers. We'll provide a new update at 12:30 PT.  
  
|

We continue to investigate the problem with quotas being reset to default
values for some customers. We'll provide a new update at 12:30 PT.  
  
| Feb 23, 2016 | 11:11 |

We are still investigating the problem of some projects quotas being reverted
back to Default values and we'll provide a new update in at 11:30 PST time.  
  
|

We are still investigating the problem of some projects quotas being reverted
back to Default values and we'll provide a new update in at 11:30 PST time.  
  
| Feb 23, 2016 | 10:43 |

We are investigating a problem with our Quota System where Quotas were reset
to default values for some Customers.  
  
|

We are investigating a problem with our Quota System where Quotas were reset
to default values for some Customers.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

