# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 03, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Compute Engine](/incident/compute/15065)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Compute Engine Incident #15065

400 errors when trying to create an external (L3) Load Balancer for GCE/GKE
services

Incident began at **2015-12-08 09:29** and ended at **2015-12-08 12:22** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Dec 09, 2015 | 06:00 |

SUMMARY:

On Monday 7 December 2015, Google Container Engine customers could not create
external load balancers for their services for a duration of 21 hours and 38
minutes. If your service or application was affected, we apologize — this is
not the level of quality and reliability we strive to offer you, and we have
taken and are taking immediate steps to improve the platform’s performance and
availability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

From Monday 7 December 2015 15:00 PST to Tuesday 8 December 2015 12:38 PST,
Google Container Engine customers could not create external load balancers for
their services. Affected customers saw HTTP 400 “invalid argument” errors when
creating load balancers in their Container Engine clusters. 6.7% of clusters
experienced API errors due to this issue.

The issue also affected customers who deployed Kubernetes clusters in the
Google Compute Engine environment.

The issue was confined to Google Container Engine and Kubernetes, with no
effect on users of any other resource based on Google Compute Engine.

ROOT CAUSE:

Google Container Engine uses the Google Compute Engine API to manage
computational resources. At about 15:00 PST on Monday 7 December, a minor
update to the Compute Engine API inadvertently changed the case-sensitivity of
the “sessionAffinity” enum variable in the target pool definition, and this
variation was not covered by testing. Google Container Engine was not aware of
this change and sent requests with incompatible case, causing the Compute
Engine API to return an error status.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

Google engineers re-enabled load balancer creation by rolling back the Google
Compute Engine API to its previous version. This was complete by 8 December
2015 12:38 PST.

At 8 December 2015 10:00 PST, Google engineers committed a fix to the
Kubernetes public open source repository.

Google engineers will increase the coverage of the Container Engine continuous
integration system to detect compatibility issues of this kind. In addition,
Google engineers will change the release process of the Compute Engine API to
detect issues earlier to minimize potential negative impact.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

On Monday 7 December 2015, Google Container Engine customers could not create
external load balancers for their services for a duration of 21 hours and 38
minutes. If your service or application was affected, we apologize — this is
not the level of quality and reliability we strive to offer you, and we have
taken and are taking immediate steps to improve the platform’s performance and
availability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

From Monday 7 December 2015 15:00 PST to Tuesday 8 December 2015 12:38 PST,
Google Container Engine customers could not create external load balancers for
their services. Affected customers saw HTTP 400 “invalid argument” errors when
creating load balancers in their Container Engine clusters. 6.7% of clusters
experienced API errors due to this issue.

The issue also affected customers who deployed Kubernetes clusters in the
Google Compute Engine environment.

The issue was confined to Google Container Engine and Kubernetes, with no
effect on users of any other resource based on Google Compute Engine.

ROOT CAUSE:

Google Container Engine uses the Google Compute Engine API to manage
computational resources. At about 15:00 PST on Monday 7 December, a minor
update to the Compute Engine API inadvertently changed the case-sensitivity of
the “sessionAffinity” enum variable in the target pool definition, and this
variation was not covered by testing. Google Container Engine was not aware of
this change and sent requests with incompatible case, causing the Compute
Engine API to return an error status.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

Google engineers re-enabled load balancer creation by rolling back the Google
Compute Engine API to its previous version. This was complete by 8 December
2015 12:38 PST.

At 8 December 2015 10:00 PST, Google engineers committed a fix to the
Kubernetes public open source repository.

Google engineers will increase the coverage of the Container Engine continuous
integration system to detect compatibility issues of this kind. In addition,
Google engineers will change the release process of the Compute Engine API to
detect issues earlier to minimize potential negative impact.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 12:22 |

The problem has been fully addressed as of 2015-12-08 12:22pm US/Pacific. We
will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate
improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future recurrence.  
  
|

The problem has been fully addressed as of 2015-12-08 12:22pm US/Pacific. We
will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate
improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future recurrence.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 12:03 |

We are currently testing a fix that hopefully will address the underlying
issue. In the meanwhile please use the workaround provided previously of
creating load balancers with client IP session affinity. We'll provide another
status update by 2015-12-08 13:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are currently testing a fix that hopefully will address the underlying
issue. In the meanwhile please use the workaround provided previously of
creating load balancers with client IP session affinity. We'll provide another
status update by 2015-12-08 13:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 11:05 |

We've identified an issue in GCE/GKE when attempting to create external (L3)
load balancers for their Kubernetes clusters. A proper fix for this issue is
being worked on. Meanwhile, a potential workaround is to create load balancers
with client IP session affinity. See an example here:
<https://gist.github.com/cjcullen/2aad7d51b76b190e2193> . We will provide
another status update by 2015-12-08 12:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We've identified an issue in GCE/GKE when attempting to create external (L3)
load balancers for their Kubernetes clusters. A proper fix for this issue is
being worked on. Meanwhile, a potential workaround is to create load balancers
with client IP session affinity. See an example here:
<https://gist.github.com/cjcullen/2aad7d51b76b190e2193> . We will provide
another status update by 2015-12-08 12:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 10:29 |

We are still investigating reports of an issue with GCE/GKE when attempting to
create an external (L2) load balancer for their services on GCE / GKE. We will
provide another status update by 2015-12-08 11:30 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

We are still investigating reports of an issue with GCE/GKE when attempting to
create an external (L2) load balancer for their services on GCE / GKE. We will
provide another status update by 2015-12-08 11:30 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Dec 08, 2015 | 09:55 |

We are investigating reports of an issue with GCE/GKE when attempting to
create an external (L3) load balancer for their services on GCE / GKE.  
  
|

We are investigating reports of an issue with GCE/GKE when attempting to
create an external (L3) load balancer for their services on GCE / GKE.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

