# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

March 30, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Compute Engine](/incident/compute/16005)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Compute Engine Incident #16005

Network Connectivity Issues in Europe-West1-C

Incident began at **2016-02-24 12:00** and ended at **2016-02-24 12:57** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Mar 09, 2016 | 16:44 |

SUMMARY:

On Wednesday 24 February 2016, some Google Compute Engine instances in the
europe-west1-c zone experienced network connectivity loss for a duration of 62
minutes. If your service or application was affected by these network issues,
we sincerely apologize. We have taken immediate steps to remedy the issue and
we are working through a detailed plan to prevent any recurrence.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On 24 February 2016 from 11:43 to 12:45 PST, up to 17% of Google Compute
Engine instances in the europe-west1-c zone experienced a loss of network
connectivity. Affected instances lost connectivity to both internal and
external destinations.

ROOT CAUSE:

The root cause of this incident was complex, involving interactions between
three components of the Google Compute Engine control plane: the main
configuration repository, an integration layer for networking configuration,
and the low-level network programming mechanism.

Several hours before the incident on 24th February 2016, Google engineers
modified the Google Compute Engine control plane in the europe-west1-c zone,
migrating the management of network firewall rules from an older system to the
modern integration layer. This was a well-understood change that had been
carried out several times in other zones without incident. As on previous
occasions, the migration was completed without issues.

On this occasion, however, the migrated networking configuration included a
small ratio (approximately 0.002%) of invalid rules. The GCP network
programming layer is hardened against invalid or inconsistent configuration
information, and continued to operate correctly in the presence of these
invalid rules.

Twenty minutes before the incident, however, a remastering event occurred in
the network programming layer in the europe-west1-c zone. Events of this kind
are routine but, in this case, the presence of the invalid rules in the
configuration coupled with a race condition in the way the new master loads
its configuration caused the new master to load its network configuration
incorrectly.. The consequence, at 11:43 PST, was a loss of network programming
configuration for a subset of Compute Engine instances in the zone,
effectively removing their network connectivity until the configuration could
be re-propagated from the central repository.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google engineers restored service by forcing another remastering of the
network programming layer, restoring a correct network configuration.

To prevent recurrence, Google engineers are fixing both the race condition
which led to an incorrect configuration during mastership change, and adding
alerting for the presence of invalid rules in the network configuration so
that they will be detected promptly upon introduction. The combination of
these two changes provide defense in depth against future configuration
inconsistency and we believe will preserve correct function of the network
programming system in the face of invalid information.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

On Wednesday 24 February 2016, some Google Compute Engine instances in the
europe-west1-c zone experienced network connectivity loss for a duration of 62
minutes. If your service or application was affected by these network issues,
we sincerely apologize. We have taken immediate steps to remedy the issue and
we are working through a detailed plan to prevent any recurrence.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On 24 February 2016 from 11:43 to 12:45 PST, up to 17% of Google Compute
Engine instances in the europe-west1-c zone experienced a loss of network
connectivity. Affected instances lost connectivity to both internal and
external destinations.

ROOT CAUSE:

The root cause of this incident was complex, involving interactions between
three components of the Google Compute Engine control plane: the main
configuration repository, an integration layer for networking configuration,
and the low-level network programming mechanism.

Several hours before the incident on 24th February 2016, Google engineers
modified the Google Compute Engine control plane in the europe-west1-c zone,
migrating the management of network firewall rules from an older system to the
modern integration layer. This was a well-understood change that had been
carried out several times in other zones without incident. As on previous
occasions, the migration was completed without issues.

On this occasion, however, the migrated networking configuration included a
small ratio (approximately 0.002%) of invalid rules. The GCP network
programming layer is hardened against invalid or inconsistent configuration
information, and continued to operate correctly in the presence of these
invalid rules.

Twenty minutes before the incident, however, a remastering event occurred in
the network programming layer in the europe-west1-c zone. Events of this kind
are routine but, in this case, the presence of the invalid rules in the
configuration coupled with a race condition in the way the new master loads
its configuration caused the new master to load its network configuration
incorrectly.. The consequence, at 11:43 PST, was a loss of network programming
configuration for a subset of Compute Engine instances in the zone,
effectively removing their network connectivity until the configuration could
be re-propagated from the central repository.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google engineers restored service by forcing another remastering of the
network programming layer, restoring a correct network configuration.

To prevent recurrence, Google engineers are fixing both the race condition
which led to an incorrect configuration during mastership change, and adding
alerting for the presence of invalid rules in the network configuration so
that they will be detected promptly upon introduction. The combination of
these two changes provide defense in depth against future configuration
inconsistency and we believe will preserve correct function of the network
programming system in the face of invalid information.  
  
| Feb 24, 2016 | 13:00 |

The issue with network connectivity to VMs in europe-west1-c should have been
resolved for all affected instances as of 12:57 PST. We will conduct an
internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our
systems to prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more
detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal
investigation.  
  
|

The issue with network connectivity to VMs in europe-west1-c should have been
resolved for all affected instances as of 12:57 PST. We will conduct an
internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our
systems to prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more
detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal
investigation.  
  
| Feb 24, 2016 | 12:21 |

We are currently investigating network connectivity issues affecting the
europe-west1-c zone. We will provide another update with more information by
13:00 PST.  
  
|

We are currently investigating network connectivity issues affecting the
europe-west1-c zone. We will provide another update with more information by
13:00 PST.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

