# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 09, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Compute Engine](/incident/compute/17003)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Compute Engine Incident #17003

New VMs are experiencing connectivity issues

Incident began at **2017-01-30 10:54** and ended at **2017-01-30 12:50** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Feb 08, 2017 | 18:30 |

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Monday 30 January 2017, newly created Google Compute Engine instances,
Cloud VPNs and network load balancers were unavailable for a duration of 2
hours 8 minutes. We understand how important the flexibility to launch new
resources and scale up GCE is for our users and apologize for this incident.
In particular, we apologize for the wide scope of this issue and are taking
steps to address the scope and duration of this incident as well as the root
cause itself.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

Any GCE instances, Cloud VPN tunnels or GCE network load balancers created or
live migrated on Monday 30 January 2017 between 10:36 and 12:42 PDT were
unavailable via their public IP addresses until the end of that period. This
also prevented outbound traffic from affected instances and load balancing
health checks from succeeding. Previously created VPN tunnels, load balancers
and instances that did not experience a live migration were unaffected.

ROOT CAUSE

All inbound networking for GCE instances, load balancers and VPN tunnels enter
via shared layer 2 load balancers. These load balancers are configured with
changes to IP addresses for these resources, then automatically tested in a
canary deployment, before changes are globally propagated.

The issue was triggered by a large set of updates which were applied to a
rarely used load balancing configuration. The application of updates to this
configuration exposed an inefficient code path which resulted in the canary
timing out. From this point all changes of public addressing were queued
behind these changes that could not proceed past the testing phase.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

To resolve the issue, Google engineers restarted the jobs responsible for
programming changes to the network load balancers. After restarting, the
problematic changes were processed in a batch, which no longer reached the
inefficient code path. From this point updates could be processed and normal
traffic resumed. This fix was applied zone by zone between 11:36 and 12:42.

To prevent this issue from reoccurring in the short term, Google engineers are
increasing the canary timeout so that updates exercising the inefficient code
path merely slow network changes rather than completely stop them. As a long
term resolution, the inefficient code path is being improved, and new tests
are being written to test behaviour on a wider range of configurations.

Google engineers had already begun work to replace global propagation of
address configuration with decentralized routing. This work is being
accelerated as it will prevent issues with this layer having global impact.

Google engineers are also creating additional metrics and alerting that will
allow the nature of this issue to be identified sooner, which will lead to
faster resolution.  
  
|

ISSUE SUMMARY

On Monday 30 January 2017, newly created Google Compute Engine instances,
Cloud VPNs and network load balancers were unavailable for a duration of 2
hours 8 minutes. We understand how important the flexibility to launch new
resources and scale up GCE is for our users and apologize for this incident.
In particular, we apologize for the wide scope of this issue and are taking
steps to address the scope and duration of this incident as well as the root
cause itself.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

Any GCE instances, Cloud VPN tunnels or GCE network load balancers created or
live migrated on Monday 30 January 2017 between 10:36 and 12:42 PDT were
unavailable via their public IP addresses until the end of that period. This
also prevented outbound traffic from affected instances and load balancing
health checks from succeeding. Previously created VPN tunnels, load balancers
and instances that did not experience a live migration were unaffected.

ROOT CAUSE

All inbound networking for GCE instances, load balancers and VPN tunnels enter
via shared layer 2 load balancers. These load balancers are configured with
changes to IP addresses for these resources, then automatically tested in a
canary deployment, before changes are globally propagated.

The issue was triggered by a large set of updates which were applied to a
rarely used load balancing configuration. The application of updates to this
configuration exposed an inefficient code path which resulted in the canary
timing out. From this point all changes of public addressing were queued
behind these changes that could not proceed past the testing phase.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

To resolve the issue, Google engineers restarted the jobs responsible for
programming changes to the network load balancers. After restarting, the
problematic changes were processed in a batch, which no longer reached the
inefficient code path. From this point updates could be processed and normal
traffic resumed. This fix was applied zone by zone between 11:36 and 12:42.

To prevent this issue from reoccurring in the short term, Google engineers are
increasing the canary timeout so that updates exercising the inefficient code
path merely slow network changes rather than completely stop them. As a long
term resolution, the inefficient code path is being improved, and new tests
are being written to test behaviour on a wider range of configurations.

Google engineers had already begun work to replace global propagation of
address configuration with decentralized routing. This work is being
accelerated as it will prevent issues with this layer having global impact.

Google engineers are also creating additional metrics and alerting that will
allow the nature of this issue to be identified sooner, which will lead to
faster resolution.  
  
| Jan 30, 2017 | 12:56 |

We have fully mitigated the network connectivity issues for newly-created GCE
instances as of 12:45 US/Pacific, with VPNs connectivity issues being fully
mitigated at 12:50 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of
this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or
minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this
incident once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
|

We have fully mitigated the network connectivity issues for newly-created GCE
instances as of 12:45 US/Pacific, with VPNs connectivity issues being fully
mitigated at 12:50 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of
this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or
minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this
incident once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
| Jan 30, 2017 | 12:40 |

The issue with newly-created GCE instances experiencing network connectivity
problems should have been mitigated for all GCE regions except europe-west1,
which is currently clearing. Newly-created VPNs are additionally affected; we
are still working on a mitigation for this. We will provide another status
update by 13:10 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

The issue with newly-created GCE instances experiencing network connectivity
problems should have been mitigated for all GCE regions except europe-west1,
which is currently clearing. Newly-created VPNs are additionally affected; we
are still working on a mitigation for this. We will provide another status
update by 13:10 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Jan 30, 2017 | 12:07 |

The issue with newly-created GCE instances experiencing network connectivity
problems should have been mitigated for the majority of GCE regions and we
expect a full resolution in the near future. We will provide another status
update by 12:40 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

The issue with newly-created GCE instances experiencing network connectivity
problems should have been mitigated for the majority of GCE regions and we
expect a full resolution in the near future. We will provide another status
update by 12:40 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Jan 30, 2017 | 11:40 |

We are experiencing a connectivity issue affecting newly-created VMs, as well
as those undergoing live migrations beginning at Monday, 2017-01-30 10:54
US/Pacific. Mitigation work is currently underway. All zones should be coming
back online in the next 15-20 minutes. For everyone who is affected, we
apologize for any inconvenience you may be experiencing. We will provide
another update at 12:10 PST.  
  
|

We are experiencing a connectivity issue affecting newly-created VMs, as well
as those undergoing live migrations beginning at Monday, 2017-01-30 10:54
US/Pacific. Mitigation work is currently underway. All zones should be coming
back online in the next 15-20 minutes. For everyone who is affected, we
apologize for any inconvenience you may be experiencing. We will provide
another update at 12:10 PST.  
  
| Jan 30, 2017 | 11:13 |

We are investigating an issue with newly-created VMs not having network
connectivity. This also affects VMs undergoing live migrations. We will
provide more information by 11:45 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating an issue with newly-created VMs not having network
connectivity. This also affects VMs undergoing live migrations. We will
provide more information by 11:45 US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

