# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 03, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Compute Engine](/incident/compute/15058)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Compute Engine Incident #15058

Intermittent Connectivity Issues In us-central1b

Incident began at **2015-10-31 05:52** and ended at **2015-10-31 07:05** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Nov 04, 2015 | 22:00 |

SUMMARY:

Between Saturday 31 October 2015 and Sunday 1 November 2015, Google Compute
Engine networking in the us-central1-b zone was impaired on 3 occasions for an
aggregate total of 4 hours 10 minutes. We apologize if your service was
affected in one of these incidents, and we are working to improve the
platform’s performance and availability to meet our customer’s expectations.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT (All times in Pacific/US):

Outage timeframes for Saturday 31 October 2015: 05:52 to 07:05 for 73 minutes

Outage timeframes for Sunday 1 November 2015: 14:10 to 15:30 for 80 minutes,
19:03 to 22:40 for 97 minutes

During the affected timeframes, up to 14% of the VMs in us-central1-b
experienced up to 100% packet loss communicating with other VMs in the same
project. The issue impacted both in-zone and intra-zone communications.

ROOT CAUSE:

Google network control fabrics are designed to permit simultaneous failure of
one or more components. When such failures occur, redundant components on the
network may assume new roles within the control fabric. A race condition in
one of these role transitions resulted in the loss of flow information for a
subset of the VMs controlled by the fabric.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

Google engineers began rolling out a change to eliminate this race condition
at 18:03 PST on Monday November 2 2015. The rollout completed on at 11:13 PST
on Wednesday November 4 2015. Additionally, monitoring is being improved to
reduce the time required to detect, identify and resolve problematic changes
to the network control fabric.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

Between Saturday 31 October 2015 and Sunday 1 November 2015, Google Compute
Engine networking in the us-central1-b zone was impaired on 3 occasions for an
aggregate total of 4 hours 10 minutes. We apologize if your service was
affected in one of these incidents, and we are working to improve the
platform’s performance and availability to meet our customer’s expectations.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT (All times in Pacific/US):

Outage timeframes for Saturday 31 October 2015: 05:52 to 07:05 for 73 minutes

Outage timeframes for Sunday 1 November 2015: 14:10 to 15:30 for 80 minutes,
19:03 to 22:40 for 97 minutes

During the affected timeframes, up to 14% of the VMs in us-central1-b
experienced up to 100% packet loss communicating with other VMs in the same
project. The issue impacted both in-zone and intra-zone communications.

ROOT CAUSE:

Google network control fabrics are designed to permit simultaneous failure of
one or more components. When such failures occur, redundant components on the
network may assume new roles within the control fabric. A race condition in
one of these role transitions resulted in the loss of flow information for a
subset of the VMs controlled by the fabric.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

Google engineers began rolling out a change to eliminate this race condition
at 18:03 PST on Monday November 2 2015. The rollout completed on at 11:13 PST
on Wednesday November 4 2015. Additionally, monitoring is being improved to
reduce the time required to detect, identify and resolve problematic changes
to the network control fabric.  
  
| Oct 31, 2015 | 11:52 |

The issue with sending and receiving traffic between VMs in us-central1b
should have been resolved for all affected instannces as of 07:08 US/Pacific.
We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate
improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future recurrence. We
sincerely apologize for any affect this disruption had on your applications
and/or services.  
  
|

The issue with sending and receiving traffic between VMs in us-central1b
should have been resolved for all affected instannces as of 07:08 US/Pacific.
We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate
improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future recurrence. We
sincerely apologize for any affect this disruption had on your applications
and/or services.  
  
| Oct 31, 2015 | 09:32 |

The issue with sending and receiving internal traffic in us-central1b should
have been resolved for the majority of instances and we expect a full
resolution in the near future. We will provide an update with the affected
timeframe after our investigation is complete.  
  
|

The issue with sending and receiving internal traffic in us-central1b should
have been resolved for the majority of instances and we expect a full
resolution in the near future. We will provide an update with the affected
timeframe after our investigation is complete.  
  
| Oct 31, 2015 | 08:29 |

We are continuing to investigate an intermittent issue with sending and
receiving internal traffic in us-central1b and will provide another update by
09:30 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are continuing to investigate an intermittent issue with sending and
receiving internal traffic in us-central1b and will provide another update by
09:30 US/Pacific.  
  
| Oct 31, 2015 | 07:43 |

We are currently investigating a transient issue with sending internal traffic
to and from us-central1b.  
  
|

We are currently investigating a transient issue with sending internal traffic
to and from us-central1b.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

