# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 03, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Compute Engine](/incident/compute/15057)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Compute Engine Incident #15057

Google Compute Engine issue with newly created instances

Incident began at **2015-10-27 22:05** and ended at **2015-10-27 23:15** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Oct 30, 2015 | 13:26 |

SUMMARY:

On Tuesday 27 October 2015, Google Compute Engine instances created within a
90 minute period in us-central1 and asia-east1 regions took longer than usual
to obtain external network connectivity. Existing instances in the specified
regions were not affected and continued to be available. We know how important
it is to be able to create instances both for new deployments and scaling
existing deployments, and we apologize for the impairment of these actions.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Tuesday 27 October 2015 GCE instances created between 21:44 and 23:13 PDT
in the us-central1 and asia-east1 regions took over 5 minutes before they
started to receive traffic via their external IP address or network load
balancer. Existing instances continued to operate without any issue, and there
was no effect on internal networking for any instance.

ROOT CAUSE:

This issue was triggered by rapid changes in external traffic patterns. The
networking infrastructure automatically reconfigured itself to adapt to the
changes, but the reconfiguration involved processing a substantial queue of
modifications. The network registration of new GCE instances was required to
wait on events in this queue, leading to delays in registration.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

This issue was resolved as the backlog of network configuration changes was
automatically processed.

Google engineers will decouple the GCE networking operations and management
systems that were involved in the issue such that a backlog in one system does
not affect the other.

Although the issue was detected promptly, Google engineers have identified
opportunities to further improve internal monitoring and alerting for related
issues.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

On Tuesday 27 October 2015, Google Compute Engine instances created within a
90 minute period in us-central1 and asia-east1 regions took longer than usual
to obtain external network connectivity. Existing instances in the specified
regions were not affected and continued to be available. We know how important
it is to be able to create instances both for new deployments and scaling
existing deployments, and we apologize for the impairment of these actions.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Tuesday 27 October 2015 GCE instances created between 21:44 and 23:13 PDT
in the us-central1 and asia-east1 regions took over 5 minutes before they
started to receive traffic via their external IP address or network load
balancer. Existing instances continued to operate without any issue, and there
was no effect on internal networking for any instance.

ROOT CAUSE:

This issue was triggered by rapid changes in external traffic patterns. The
networking infrastructure automatically reconfigured itself to adapt to the
changes, but the reconfiguration involved processing a substantial queue of
modifications. The network registration of new GCE instances was required to
wait on events in this queue, leading to delays in registration.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

This issue was resolved as the backlog of network configuration changes was
automatically processed.

Google engineers will decouple the GCE networking operations and management
systems that were involved in the issue such that a backlog in one system does
not affect the other.

Although the issue was detected promptly, Google engineers have identified
opportunities to further improve internal monitoring and alerting for related
issues.  
  
| Oct 27, 2015 | 23:50 |

The issue with Google Compute Engine for newly created instances should have
been resolved for all affected regions (us-central1 and asia-east1) as of
23:15 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and
make appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future
recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this incident once we
have completed our internal investigation.  
  
|

The issue with Google Compute Engine for newly created instances should have
been resolved for all affected regions (us-central1 and asia-east1) as of
23:15 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and
make appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future
recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this incident once we
have completed our internal investigation.  
  
| Oct 27, 2015 | 23:20 |

We are experiencing an issue with Google Compute Engine for newly created
instances, being delayed to become accessible, beginning at Tuesday,
2015-10-27 22:05 US/Pacific.

Current data indicates that zones us-central1 and asia-east1 are affected by
this issue.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be
experiencing. We will provide an update by 23:50 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with Google Compute Engine for newly created
instances, being delayed to become accessible, beginning at Tuesday,
2015-10-27 22:05 US/Pacific.

Current data indicates that zones us-central1 and asia-east1 are affected by
this issue.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be
experiencing. We will provide an update by 23:50 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Oct 27, 2015 | 23:16 |

We are investigating reports of an issue with Google Compute Engine. We will
provide more information by 23:20 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating reports of an issue with Google Compute Engine. We will
provide more information by 23:20 US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

