# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

March 28, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Compute Engine](/incident/compute/16002)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Compute Engine Incident #16002

Connectivity issue in asia-east1

Incident began at **2016-02-03 00:40** and ended at **2016-02-03 02:09** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Feb 04, 2016 | 10:33 |

SUMMARY:

On Wednesday 3 February 2016, one third of network connections from external
sources to Google Compute Engine instances and network load balancers in the
asia-east1 region experienced high rates of network packet loss for 89
minutes. We sincerely apologize to customers who were affected. We have taken
and are taking immediate steps to improve the platform’s performance and
availability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Wednesday 3 February 2016, from 00:40 PST to 02:09 PST, one third of
network connections from external sources to Google Compute Engine instances
and network load balancers in the asia-east1 region experienced high rates of
network packet loss. Traffic between instances within the region was not
affected.

ROOT CAUSE:

Google Compute Engine maintains a pool of systems that encapsulate incoming
packets and forward them to the appropriate instance. During a regular system
update, a master failover triggered a latent configuration error in two
internal packet processing servers. This configuration rendered the affected
packet forwarders unable to properly encapsulate external packets destined to
instances.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

Google's monitoring system detected the problem within two minutes of the
configuration change. Additional alerts issued by the monitoring system for
the asia-east1 region negatively affected total time required to root cause
and resolve the issue. At 02:09 PST, Google engineers applied a temporary
configuration change to divert incoming network traffic away from the affected
packet encapsulation systems and fully restore network connectivity. In
parallel, the incorrect configuration has been rectified and pushed to the
affected systems.

To prevent this issue from recurring, we will change the way packet processor
configurations are propagated and audited, to ensure that incorrect
configurations are detected while their servers are still on standby.In
addition, we will make improvements to our monitoring to make it easier for
engineers to quickly diagnose and pinpoint the impact of such problems.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

On Wednesday 3 February 2016, one third of network connections from external
sources to Google Compute Engine instances and network load balancers in the
asia-east1 region experienced high rates of network packet loss for 89
minutes. We sincerely apologize to customers who were affected. We have taken
and are taking immediate steps to improve the platform’s performance and
availability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Wednesday 3 February 2016, from 00:40 PST to 02:09 PST, one third of
network connections from external sources to Google Compute Engine instances
and network load balancers in the asia-east1 region experienced high rates of
network packet loss. Traffic between instances within the region was not
affected.

ROOT CAUSE:

Google Compute Engine maintains a pool of systems that encapsulate incoming
packets and forward them to the appropriate instance. During a regular system
update, a master failover triggered a latent configuration error in two
internal packet processing servers. This configuration rendered the affected
packet forwarders unable to properly encapsulate external packets destined to
instances.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

Google's monitoring system detected the problem within two minutes of the
configuration change. Additional alerts issued by the monitoring system for
the asia-east1 region negatively affected total time required to root cause
and resolve the issue. At 02:09 PST, Google engineers applied a temporary
configuration change to divert incoming network traffic away from the affected
packet encapsulation systems and fully restore network connectivity. In
parallel, the incorrect configuration has been rectified and pushed to the
affected systems.

To prevent this issue from recurring, we will change the way packet processor
configurations are propagated and audited, to ensure that incorrect
configurations are detected while their servers are still on standby.In
addition, we will make improvements to our monitoring to make it easier for
engineers to quickly diagnose and pinpoint the impact of such problems.  
  
| Feb 03, 2016 | 02:37 |

The issue with Google Compute Engine instances experiencing packet loss in the
asia-east1 region should have been resolved for all affected instances as of
02:11 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and
make appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future
recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this incident once we
have completed our internal investigation.  
  
|

The issue with Google Compute Engine instances experiencing packet loss in the
asia-east1 region should have been resolved for all affected instances as of
02:11 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and
make appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future
recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this incident once we
have completed our internal investigation.  
  
| Feb 03, 2016 | 02:28 |

We are still investigating the issue with Google Compute Engine instances
experiencing packet loss in the asia-east1 region. Current data indicates that
up to 33% of instances in the region are experiencing up to 10% packet loss
when communicating with external resources. We will provide another status
update by 03:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still investigating the issue with Google Compute Engine instances
experiencing packet loss in the asia-east1 region. Current data indicates that
up to 33% of instances in the region are experiencing up to 10% packet loss
when communicating with external resources. We will provide another status
update by 03:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Feb 03, 2016 | 01:59 |

We are experiencing an issue with Google Compute Engine seeing packet loss in
asia-east1 beginning at Wednesday, 2016-02-03 00:40 US/Pacific.

Instances of affected customers may experience packet loss.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be
experiencing. We will provide an update by 02:30 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with Google Compute Engine seeing packet loss in
asia-east1 beginning at Wednesday, 2016-02-03 00:40 US/Pacific.

Instances of affected customers may experience packet loss.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be
experiencing. We will provide an update by 02:30 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Feb 03, 2016 | 01:46 |

We are investigating reports of an issue with Google Compute Engine. We will
provide more information by 02:00 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating reports of an issue with Google Compute Engine. We will
provide more information by 02:00 US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

