# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 03, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Compute Engine](/incident/compute/16012)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Compute Engine Incident #16012

Newly created instances may be experiencing packet loss.

Incident began at **2016-06-29 12:18** and ended at **2016-06-29 13:57** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Jun 30, 2016 | 21:12 |

SUMMARY:

On Wednesday 29 June 2016, newly created Google Compute Engine instances and
newly created network load balancers in all zones were partially unreachable
for a duration of 106 minutes. We know that many customers depend on the
ability to rapidly deploy and change configurations, and apologise for our
failure to provide this to you during this time.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Wednesday 29 June 2016, from 11:58 PST until 13:44 US/Pacific, new Google
Compute Engine instances and new network load balancers were partially
unreachable via the network. In addition, changes to existing network load
balancers were only partially applied. The level of unreachability depended on
traffic path rather than instance or load balancer location. Overall, the
average impact on new instances was 50% of traffic in the US and around 90% in
Asia and Europe.

Existing and unchanged instances and load balancers were unaffected.

ROOT CAUSE:

On 11:58 PST, a scheduled upgrade to Google’s network control system started,
introducing an additional access control check for network configuration
changes. This inadvertently removed the access of GCE’s management system to
network load balancers in this environment. Only a fraction of Google's
network locations require this access as an older design has an intermediate
component doing access updates. As a result these locations did not receive
updates for new and changed instances or load balancers.

The change was only tested at network locations that did not require the
direct access, which resulted in the issue not being detected during testing
and canarying and being deployed globally.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

After identifying the root cause, the access control check was modified to
allow access by GCE’s management system. The issue was resolved when this
modification was fully deployed.

To prevent future incidents, the network team is making several changes to
their deployment processes. This will improve the level of testing and
canarying to catch issues earlier, especially where an issue only affects a
subset of the environments at Google. The deployment process will have the
rollback procedure enhanced to allow the quickest possible resolution for
future incidents.

The access control system that was at the root of this issue will also be
modified to improve operations that interacts with it. For example it will be
integrated with a Google-wide change logging system to allow faster detection
of issues caused by access control changes. It will also be outfitted with a
dry run mode to allow consequences of changes to be tested during development
time.

Once again we would like to apologise for falling below the level of service
you rely on.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

On Wednesday 29 June 2016, newly created Google Compute Engine instances and
newly created network load balancers in all zones were partially unreachable
for a duration of 106 minutes. We know that many customers depend on the
ability to rapidly deploy and change configurations, and apologise for our
failure to provide this to you during this time.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Wednesday 29 June 2016, from 11:58 PST until 13:44 US/Pacific, new Google
Compute Engine instances and new network load balancers were partially
unreachable via the network. In addition, changes to existing network load
balancers were only partially applied. The level of unreachability depended on
traffic path rather than instance or load balancer location. Overall, the
average impact on new instances was 50% of traffic in the US and around 90% in
Asia and Europe.

Existing and unchanged instances and load balancers were unaffected.

ROOT CAUSE:

On 11:58 PST, a scheduled upgrade to Google’s network control system started,
introducing an additional access control check for network configuration
changes. This inadvertently removed the access of GCE’s management system to
network load balancers in this environment. Only a fraction of Google's
network locations require this access as an older design has an intermediate
component doing access updates. As a result these locations did not receive
updates for new and changed instances or load balancers.

The change was only tested at network locations that did not require the
direct access, which resulted in the issue not being detected during testing
and canarying and being deployed globally.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

After identifying the root cause, the access control check was modified to
allow access by GCE’s management system. The issue was resolved when this
modification was fully deployed.

To prevent future incidents, the network team is making several changes to
their deployment processes. This will improve the level of testing and
canarying to catch issues earlier, especially where an issue only affects a
subset of the environments at Google. The deployment process will have the
rollback procedure enhanced to allow the quickest possible resolution for
future incidents.

The access control system that was at the root of this issue will also be
modified to improve operations that interacts with it. For example it will be
integrated with a Google-wide change logging system to allow faster detection
of issues caused by access control changes. It will also be outfitted with a
dry run mode to allow consequences of changes to be tested during development
time.

Once again we would like to apologise for falling below the level of service
you rely on.  
  
| Jun 29, 2016 | 14:00 |

The issue with new Google Compute Engine instance experiencing packet loss on
startup should have been resolved for all affected instances as of 13:57
US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make
appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future
recurrence.  
  
|

The issue with new Google Compute Engine instance experiencing packet loss on
startup should have been resolved for all affected instances as of 13:57
US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make
appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future
recurrence.  
  
| Jun 29, 2016 | 13:30 |

The issue with new Google Compute Engine instance experiencing packet loss on
startup should have been resolved for some instances and we expect a full
resolution in the near future. We will provide another status update by 14:00
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

The issue with new Google Compute Engine instance experiencing packet loss on
startup should have been resolved for some instances and we expect a full
resolution in the near future. We will provide another status update by 14:00
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Jun 29, 2016 | 13:00 |

We are experiencing an issue with new Google Compute Engine instance
experiencing packet loss on startup beginning at Wednesday, 2016-06-29 12:18
US/Pacific.

Current data indicates that 100% of instances are affected by this issue.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be
experiencing. We will provide an update by 1:30 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with new Google Compute Engine instance
experiencing packet loss on startup beginning at Wednesday, 2016-06-29 12:18
US/Pacific.

Current data indicates that 100% of instances are affected by this issue.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be
experiencing. We will provide an update by 1:30 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Jun 29, 2016 | 12:46 |

We are investigating reports of an issue with Compute Engine. We will provide
more information by 01:00 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating reports of an issue with Compute Engine. We will provide
more information by 01:00 US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

