# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 03, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Compute Engine](/incident/compute/15059)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Compute Engine Incident #15059

Google Compute Engine Instance operations failing

Incident began at **2015-10-31 18:04** and ended at **2015-10-31 21:05** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Nov 03, 2015 | 17:21 |

SUMMARY:

On Saturday 31 October 2015, Google Compute Engine (GCE) management operations
experienced high latency for a duration of 181 minutes. If your service or
application was affected, we apologize — this is not the level of quality and
reliability we strive to offer you, and we have taken and are taking immediate
steps to improve the platform’s performance and availability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Saturday 31 October 2015 from 18:04 to 21:05 PDT, all Google Compute Engine
management operations were slow or timed out in the Google Developers Console,
the gcloud tool or the Google Compute Engine API.

ROOT CAUSE:

An issue in the handling of Google Compute Engine management operations caused
requests to not complete in a timely manner, due to older operations retrying
excessively and preventing newer operations from succeeding.

Once discovered, remediation steps were taken by Google Engineers to reduce
the number of retrying operations, enabling recovery from the operation
backlog. The incident was resolved at 21:05 PDT when all backlogged operations
were processed by the Google Compute Engine management backend and latency and
error rates returned to typical values.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

To detect similar situations in the future, the GCE Engineering team is
implementing additional automated monitoring to detect high numbers of queued
management operations and limiting the number of operation retries. Google
Engineers are also enabling more robust operation handling and load splitting
to better isolate system disruptions.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

On Saturday 31 October 2015, Google Compute Engine (GCE) management operations
experienced high latency for a duration of 181 minutes. If your service or
application was affected, we apologize — this is not the level of quality and
reliability we strive to offer you, and we have taken and are taking immediate
steps to improve the platform’s performance and availability.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Saturday 31 October 2015 from 18:04 to 21:05 PDT, all Google Compute Engine
management operations were slow or timed out in the Google Developers Console,
the gcloud tool or the Google Compute Engine API.

ROOT CAUSE:

An issue in the handling of Google Compute Engine management operations caused
requests to not complete in a timely manner, due to older operations retrying
excessively and preventing newer operations from succeeding.

Once discovered, remediation steps were taken by Google Engineers to reduce
the number of retrying operations, enabling recovery from the operation
backlog. The incident was resolved at 21:05 PDT when all backlogged operations
were processed by the Google Compute Engine management backend and latency and
error rates returned to typical values.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

To detect similar situations in the future, the GCE Engineering team is
implementing additional automated monitoring to detect high numbers of queued
management operations and limiting the number of operation retries. Google
Engineers are also enabling more robust operation handling and load splitting
to better isolate system disruptions.  
  
| Oct 31, 2015 | 21:05 |

The issue with Google Compute Engine Instance operation high latency should
have been resolved for all affected users as of 21:05 US/Pacific. We will
conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate
improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will
provide a more detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our
internal investigation.  
  
|

The issue with Google Compute Engine Instance operation high latency should
have been resolved for all affected users as of 21:05 US/Pacific. We will
conduct an internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate
improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will
provide a more detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our
internal investigation.  
  
| Oct 31, 2015 | 20:58 |

We are still investigating the issue with Google Compute Engine Instance
operation high latency. We will provide another status update by 22:00
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still investigating the issue with Google Compute Engine Instance
operation high latency. We will provide another status update by 22:00
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Oct 31, 2015 | 19:29 |

We are experiencing an issue with Google Compute Engine Instance operation
high latency beginning at Saturday, 2015-10-31 18:04 US/Pacific.

Current data indicates that only users who are attempting to run instance
management operations are affected by this issue.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be
experiencing. We will provide an update by 21:00 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with Google Compute Engine Instance operation
high latency beginning at Saturday, 2015-10-31 18:04 US/Pacific.

Current data indicates that only users who are attempting to run instance
management operations are affected by this issue.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be
experiencing. We will provide an update by 21:00 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Oct 31, 2015 | 18:48 |

We are investigating reports of an issue with Google Compute Engine Instance
operations. We will provide more information by 2015-10-31 19:30 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating reports of an issue with Google Compute Engine Instance
operations. We will provide more information by 2015-10-31 19:30 US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

