# [](//cloud.google.com)

May 09, 2020  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Cloud Console](/incident/developers-console/19003)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Cloud Console Incident #19003

Errors showing up in various areas in the Cloud Console

Incident began at **2019-05-02 07:10** and ended at **2019-05-02 09:03** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| May 10, 2019 | 09:51 |

# ISSUE SUMMARY

On Thursday 2 May 2019, Google Cloud Console experienced a 40% error rate for
all pageviews over a duration of 1 hour and 53 minutes. To all customers
affected by this Cloud Console service degradation, we apologize. We are
taking immediate steps to improve the platform’s performance and availability.

# DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Thursday 2 May 2019 from 07:10 to 09:03 US/Pacific the Google Cloud Console
served 40% of all pageviews with a timeout error. Affected console sections
include Compute Engine, Stackdriver, Kubernetes Engine, Cloud Storage,
Firebase, App Engine, APIs, IAM, Cloud SQL, Dataflow, BigQuery and Billing.

# ROOT CAUSE

The Google Cloud Console relies on many internal services to properly render
individual user interface pages. The internal billing service is one of them,
and is required to retrieve accurate state data for projects and accounts.

At 07:09 US/Pacific, a service unrelated to the Cloud Console began to send a
large amount of traffic to the internal billing service. The additional load
caused time-out and failure of individual requests including those from Google
Cloud Console. This led to the Cloud Console serving timeout errors to
customers when the underlying requests to the billing service failed.

# REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Cloud Billing engineers were automatically alerted to the issue at 07:15
US/Pacific and Cloud Console engineers were alerted at 07:21. Both teams
worked together to investigate the issue and once the root cause was
identified, pursued two mitigation strategies. First, we increased the
resources for the internal billing service in an attempt to handle the
additional load. In parallel, we worked to identify the source of the
extraneous traffic and then stop it from reaching the service. Once the
traffic source was identified, mitigation was put in place and traffic to the
internal billing service began to decrease at 08:40. The service fully
recovered at 09:03.

In order to reduce the chance of recurrence we are taking the following
actions. We will implement improved caching strategies in the Cloud Console to
reduce unnecessary load and reliance on the internal billing service. The load
shedding response of the billing service will be improved to better handle
sudden spikes in load and to allow for quicker recovery should it be needed.
Additionally, we will improve monitoring for the internal billing service to
more precisely identify which part of the system is running into limits.
Finally, we are reviewing dependencies in the serving path for all pages in
the Cloud Console to ensure that necessary internal requests are handled
gracefully in the event of failure.  
  
|

# ISSUE SUMMARY

On Thursday 2 May 2019, Google Cloud Console experienced a 40% error rate for
all pageviews over a duration of 1 hour and 53 minutes. To all customers
affected by this Cloud Console service degradation, we apologize. We are
taking immediate steps to improve the platform’s performance and availability.

# DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Thursday 2 May 2019 from 07:10 to 09:03 US/Pacific the Google Cloud Console
served 40% of all pageviews with a timeout error. Affected console sections
include Compute Engine, Stackdriver, Kubernetes Engine, Cloud Storage,
Firebase, App Engine, APIs, IAM, Cloud SQL, Dataflow, BigQuery and Billing.

# ROOT CAUSE

The Google Cloud Console relies on many internal services to properly render
individual user interface pages. The internal billing service is one of them,
and is required to retrieve accurate state data for projects and accounts.

At 07:09 US/Pacific, a service unrelated to the Cloud Console began to send a
large amount of traffic to the internal billing service. The additional load
caused time-out and failure of individual requests including those from Google
Cloud Console. This led to the Cloud Console serving timeout errors to
customers when the underlying requests to the billing service failed.

# REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Cloud Billing engineers were automatically alerted to the issue at 07:15
US/Pacific and Cloud Console engineers were alerted at 07:21. Both teams
worked together to investigate the issue and once the root cause was
identified, pursued two mitigation strategies. First, we increased the
resources for the internal billing service in an attempt to handle the
additional load. In parallel, we worked to identify the source of the
extraneous traffic and then stop it from reaching the service. Once the
traffic source was identified, mitigation was put in place and traffic to the
internal billing service began to decrease at 08:40. The service fully
recovered at 09:03.

In order to reduce the chance of recurrence we are taking the following
actions. We will implement improved caching strategies in the Cloud Console to
reduce unnecessary load and reliance on the internal billing service. The load
shedding response of the billing service will be improved to better handle
sudden spikes in load and to allow for quicker recovery should it be needed.
Additionally, we will improve monitoring for the internal billing service to
more precisely identify which part of the system is running into limits.
Finally, we are reviewing dependencies in the serving path for all pages in
the Cloud Console to ensure that necessary internal requests are handled
gracefully in the event of failure.  
  
| May 02, 2019 | 09:41 |

The issue with Google Cloud Console has been resolved for all affected
projects as of Thursday, 2019-05-02 8:58 US/Pacific. We will conduct an
internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our
systems to help prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more
detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal
investigation.  
  
|

The issue with Google Cloud Console has been resolved for all affected
projects as of Thursday, 2019-05-02 8:58 US/Pacific. We will conduct an
internal investigation of this issue and make appropriate improvements to our
systems to help prevent or minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more
detailed analysis of this incident once we have completed our internal
investigation.  
  
| May 02, 2019 | 08:57 |

We are experiencing an issue with Google Cloud Console where users are
experiencing billing errors when trying to access products' dashboards
beginning at 07:12 US/Pacific. An updated list of product dashboards that are
affected is as follows; Google Compute Engine, Stackdriver, Google Kubernetes
Engine, Google Cloud Storage, Firebase, Billing, App Engine, APIs, IAM, Cloud
SQL, Dataflow, and Big Query. For everyone who is affected, we apologize for
the disruption. We will provide an update by Thursday, 2019-05-02 10:30
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with Google Cloud Console where users are
experiencing billing errors when trying to access products' dashboards
beginning at 07:12 US/Pacific. An updated list of product dashboards that are
affected is as follows; Google Compute Engine, Stackdriver, Google Kubernetes
Engine, Google Cloud Storage, Firebase, Billing, App Engine, APIs, IAM, Cloud
SQL, Dataflow, and Big Query. For everyone who is affected, we apologize for
the disruption. We will provide an update by Thursday, 2019-05-02 10:30
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| May 02, 2019 | 08:17 |

The Google Cloud Console is experiencing errors when trying to access some
dashboards within. Known dashboards include; Google Compute Engine,
Stackdriver, Google Kubernetes Engine, Google Cloud Storage, and Firebase.
Users will be experiencing billing errors when trying to access these pages.
Gcloud can be used as a work around to interact with product APIs. We will
provide another status update by Thursday, 2019-05-02 09:00 US/Pacific  
  
|

The Google Cloud Console is experiencing errors when trying to access some
dashboards within. Known dashboards include; Google Compute Engine,
Stackdriver, Google Kubernetes Engine, Google Cloud Storage, and Firebase.
Users will be experiencing billing errors when trying to access these pages.
Gcloud can be used as a work around to interact with product APIs. We will
provide another status update by Thursday, 2019-05-02 09:00 US/Pacific  
  
| May 02, 2019 | 08:17 |

Errors showing up in various areas in the Cloud Console  
  
|

Errors showing up in various areas in the Cloud Console  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()
  * [About](https://cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard)

  *  

