# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

October 25, 2015  All services normal

  * [Cloud Status](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Developers Console](/incident/developers-console/15005)

# [Google Cloud Status](//status.cloud.google.com/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of the
Google Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the
services listed below. For additional information on these services, please
visit [cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com/).

# Google Developers Console Incident #15005

Developers console showing 404s for some users

Incident began at **2015-07-27 13:21** and ended at **2015-07-27 14:02** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Jul 28, 2015 | 23:09 |

SUMMARY:

On Monday, 27 July 2015, the Google Developers Console was unavailable to all
users for a duration of 41 minutes. We apologize for the inconvenience and any
impact on your operations that this may have caused. We are urgently working
to implement preventative measures to ensure similar incidents do not occur in
the future.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Monday, 27th July 2015 from 13:21 to 14:02 PDT, the Google Developers
Console was unavailable to users. All requests
to<https://console.developers.google.com>returned a 404 "Not Found" response.

Existing Cloud Platform resources such as Compute Engine instances or App
Engine applications were not affected. All Google Cloud Platform APIs remained
fully functional, allowing most Cloud Platform resources to be managed through
the Google Cloud SDK and other API-based tools until Console access was
restored.

ROOT CAUSE:

At 13:21, while reviewing the production status of the Developer Console, a
Google engineer inadvertently disabled the production instance of the console.
The engineer immediately recognised the error and began remediating the
problem, but the configuration change had also engaged a security mechanism
which restricted the application to the Google corporate network. This
mechanism was identified and disengaged at 14:01, which restored public access
to the Console.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

To prevent similar incidents, Google Engineers are currently adding safeguards
to make it harder to change application settings by mistake, implementing
external monitoring to detect errors outside of the Google network, and
creating alerts based on serving errors from the Developers Console.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

On Monday, 27 July 2015, the Google Developers Console was unavailable to all
users for a duration of 41 minutes. We apologize for the inconvenience and any
impact on your operations that this may have caused. We are urgently working
to implement preventative measures to ensure similar incidents do not occur in
the future.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Monday, 27th July 2015 from 13:21 to 14:02 PDT, the Google Developers
Console was unavailable to users. All requests
to<https://console.developers.google.com>returned a 404 "Not Found" response.

Existing Cloud Platform resources such as Compute Engine instances or App
Engine applications were not affected. All Google Cloud Platform APIs remained
fully functional, allowing most Cloud Platform resources to be managed through
the Google Cloud SDK and other API-based tools until Console access was
restored.

ROOT CAUSE:

At 13:21, while reviewing the production status of the Developer Console, a
Google engineer inadvertently disabled the production instance of the console.
The engineer immediately recognised the error and began remediating the
problem, but the configuration change had also engaged a security mechanism
which restricted the application to the Google corporate network. This
mechanism was identified and disengaged at 14:01, which restored public access
to the Console.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

To prevent similar incidents, Google Engineers are currently adding safeguards
to make it harder to change application settings by mistake, implementing
external monitoring to detect errors outside of the Google network, and
creating alerts based on serving errors from the Developers Console.  
  
| Jul 27, 2015 | 14:14 |

The issue with Developers Console should be resolved for all affected users as
of 14:02 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue
and make appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future
recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this incident once we
have completed our internal investigation.  
  
|

The issue with Developers Console should be resolved for all affected users as
of 14:02 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue
and make appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or minimize future
recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this incident once we
have completed our internal investigation.  
  
| Jul 27, 2015 | 13:56 |

We are experiencing an issue with the Developers Console beginning at Monday,
2015-07-27 13:21 US/Pacific.

Current data indicates that all users are affected by this issue.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be
experiencing. We will provide an update by 16:15 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with the Developers Console beginning at Monday,
2015-07-27 13:21 US/Pacific.

Current data indicates that all users are affected by this issue.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be
experiencing. We will provide an update by 16:15 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Jul 27, 2015 | 13:41 |

We are currently investigating an issue where some users are getting a 404
error when accessing the Developers Console. We will update the status of this
issue within 15 minutes  
  
|

We are currently investigating an issue where some users are getting a 404
error when accessing the Developers Console. We will update the status of this
issue within 15 minutes  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

