# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 03, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Cloud Console](/incident/developers-console/16005)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Cloud Console Incident #16005

Issue with Developers Console

Incident began at **2016-06-09 21:09** and ended at **2016-06-09 22:25** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Jul 06, 2016 | 04:11 |

SUMMARY:

On Thursday 9 June 2016, the Google Cloud Console was unavailable for a
duration of 91 minutes, with significant performance degradation in the
preceding half hour. Although this did not affect user resources running on
the Google Cloud Platform, we appreciate that many of our customers rely on
the Cloud Console to manage those resources, and we apologize to everyone who
was affected by the incident. This report is to explain to our customers what
went wrong, and what we are doing to make sure that it does not happen again.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Thursday 9 June 2016 from 20:52 to 22:23 PDT, the Google Cloud Console was
unavailable. Users who attempted to connect to the Cloud Console observed high
latency and HTTP server errors. Many users also observed increasing latency
and error rates during the half hour before the incident.

Google Cloud Platform resources were unaffected by the incident and continued
to run normally. All Cloud Platform resource management APIs remained
available, allowing Cloud Platform resources to be managed via the Google
Cloud SDK or other tools.

ROOT CAUSE:

The Google Cloud Console runs on Google App Engine, where it uses internal
functionality that is not used by customer applications. Google App Engine
version 1.9.39 introduced a bug in one internal function which affected Google
Cloud Console instances, but not customer-owned applications, and thus escaped
detection during testing and during initial rollout. Once enough instances of
Google Cloud Console had been switched to 1.9.39, the console was unavailable
and internal monitoring alerted the engineering team, who restored service by
starting additional Google Cloud Console instances on 1.9.38.

During the entire incident, customer-owned applications were not affected and
continued to operate normally.

To prevent a future recurrence, Google engineers are augmenting the testing
and rollout monitoring to detect low error rates on internal functionality,
complementing the existing monitoring for customer applications.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

When the issue was provisionally identified as a specific interaction between
Google App Engine version 1.9.39 and the Cloud Console, App Engine engineers
brought up capacity running the previous App Engine version and transferred
the Cloud Console to it, restoring service at 22:23 PDT.

The low-level bug that triggered the error has been identified and fixed.

Google engineers are increasing the fidelity of the rollout monitoring
framework to detect error signatures that suggest negative interactions of
individual apps with a new App Engine release, even the signatures are
invisible in global App Engine performance statistics.

We apologize again for the inconvenience this issue caused our customers.  
  
|

SUMMARY:

On Thursday 9 June 2016, the Google Cloud Console was unavailable for a
duration of 91 minutes, with significant performance degradation in the
preceding half hour. Although this did not affect user resources running on
the Google Cloud Platform, we appreciate that many of our customers rely on
the Cloud Console to manage those resources, and we apologize to everyone who
was affected by the incident. This report is to explain to our customers what
went wrong, and what we are doing to make sure that it does not happen again.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Thursday 9 June 2016 from 20:52 to 22:23 PDT, the Google Cloud Console was
unavailable. Users who attempted to connect to the Cloud Console observed high
latency and HTTP server errors. Many users also observed increasing latency
and error rates during the half hour before the incident.

Google Cloud Platform resources were unaffected by the incident and continued
to run normally. All Cloud Platform resource management APIs remained
available, allowing Cloud Platform resources to be managed via the Google
Cloud SDK or other tools.

ROOT CAUSE:

The Google Cloud Console runs on Google App Engine, where it uses internal
functionality that is not used by customer applications. Google App Engine
version 1.9.39 introduced a bug in one internal function which affected Google
Cloud Console instances, but not customer-owned applications, and thus escaped
detection during testing and during initial rollout. Once enough instances of
Google Cloud Console had been switched to 1.9.39, the console was unavailable
and internal monitoring alerted the engineering team, who restored service by
starting additional Google Cloud Console instances on 1.9.38.

During the entire incident, customer-owned applications were not affected and
continued to operate normally.

To prevent a future recurrence, Google engineers are augmenting the testing
and rollout monitoring to detect low error rates on internal functionality,
complementing the existing monitoring for customer applications.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

When the issue was provisionally identified as a specific interaction between
Google App Engine version 1.9.39 and the Cloud Console, App Engine engineers
brought up capacity running the previous App Engine version and transferred
the Cloud Console to it, restoring service at 22:23 PDT.

The low-level bug that triggered the error has been identified and fixed.

Google engineers are increasing the fidelity of the rollout monitoring
framework to detect error signatures that suggest negative interactions of
individual apps with a new App Engine release, even the signatures are
invisible in global App Engine performance statistics.

We apologize again for the inconvenience this issue caused our customers.  
  
| Jun 09, 2016 | 22:38 |

The issue with Developers Console should have been resolved for all affected
users as of 22:25 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of
this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or
minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this
incident once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
|

The issue with Developers Console should have been resolved for all affected
users as of 22:25 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of
this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or
minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this
incident once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
| Jun 09, 2016 | 21:56 |

We are experiencing an issue with Developers Console beginning at Thursday,
2016-06-09 21:09 US/Pacific.

Current data indicates that all users are affected by this issue. The gcloud
command line tool can be used as a workaround for those who need to manage
their resources immediately.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be
experiencing. We will provide an update by 22:30 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with Developers Console beginning at Thursday,
2016-06-09 21:09 US/Pacific.

Current data indicates that all users are affected by this issue. The gcloud
command line tool can be used as a workaround for those who need to manage
their resources immediately.

For everyone who is affected, we apologize for any inconvenience you may be
experiencing. We will provide an update by 22:30 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Jun 09, 2016 | 21:29 |

We are investigating an issue with Developers Console. We will provide more
information by 21:40 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating an issue with Developers Console. We will provide more
information by 21:40 US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

