# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 03, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Cloud Storage](/incident/storage/16029)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Cloud Storage Incident #16029

Problem with Google Cloud Storage XML API signed URLs

Incident began at **2015-08-26 07:27** and ended at **2015-08-26 11:25** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Aug 28, 2015 | 15:30 |

SUMMARY

On Wednesday 26 August 2015, requests to Signed URLs [1] on Google Cloud
Storage (GCS) returned errors for an extended period of time, affecting
approximately 18% of projects using the Signed URLs feature. We apologize to
our customers who were affected by this issue. We have identified and fixed
the root causes of the incident, and we are putting measures in place to keep
similar issues from occurring in future.

[1] <https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/access-control#Signed-URLs>

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Wednesday August 26th 2015 at 07:26 PDT, approximately 18% of projects
sending requests to GCS Signed URLs started receiving HTTP 500 and 503
responses. The majority of the errors occurred from 07:25 to 10:34 PDT. From
10:34 the number of affected projects decreased, and by 11:25 PDT fewer than
2% of Signed URL requests were receiving errors. A small number of projects
encountered continued errors until remediation was completed at 20:38.

There was no disruption to any GCS functionality that did not involve Signed
URLs.

ROOT CAUSE

GCS Signed URLs are cryptographically signed by the owner of the stored data,
using the private key of a Google Cloud Platform service account. The private
key is known only to the owner, but the corresponding public key is retained
by Google and used to verify the URL signatures.

Within Google, similar service accounts are used for many internal
authentication purposes. (For example, these accounts include the default
service account which internally represents the customer's Cloud Platform
project.) For these service accounts, Google retains both the public and the
private key. These keypairs have a short lifetime and are frequently
regenerated.

All keys are managed in a central, strongly hardened security module. As part
of an effort to simplify the key management system, prior to the incident, a
configuration change was pushed which mistakenly caused the security module to
consider customers' service accounts as candidates for automatic keypair
management. This change was later rolled back, removing the service accounts
from automatic management, but some customers' service accounts had already
received new keypairs with finite lifetimes. Accounts with heavy Signed URL
usage were more likely to be affected.

On 07:25 PDT on Wednesday 26 August, the lifetimes of the temporary keypairs
for affected accounts began to expire. Since the expired keypairs were not
automatically removed as the service account were no longer under automatic
management, it's presence was treated as an error by the Signed URL
verification process, causing all Signed URL requests for the service account
to fail.

At no time during this incident were any keys at risk and they remain safe and
secure. No action is required by customers.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Automated monitoring signalled the issue at 07:33. Google engineers identified
the need to remove the expired keys, which required manual access to the
security module. This is protected by multiple security procedures, by design,
so it required several escalations to get the correct people. Access was
gained at 10:34 PDT, and thereafter service was progressively restored as each
service account was reactivated by removing its expired keys.

To eliminate the immediate cause of the issue, Google engineers are modifying
the URL signature verifier to be more robust when it encounters expired keys.

To avoid various related classes of errors, Google engineers are increasing
the testing performed on configuration changes for the security system, both
to strengthen consistency and to ensure that configuration changes do not
induce unexpected side effects.

In case of other future issues with the security module, Google engineers are
streamlining internal escalation procedures to improve response times, and
upgrading tools for more efficient key administration.  
  
|

SUMMARY

On Wednesday 26 August 2015, requests to Signed URLs [1] on Google Cloud
Storage (GCS) returned errors for an extended period of time, affecting
approximately 18% of projects using the Signed URLs feature. We apologize to
our customers who were affected by this issue. We have identified and fixed
the root causes of the incident, and we are putting measures in place to keep
similar issues from occurring in future.

[1] <https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/access-control#Signed-URLs>

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Wednesday August 26th 2015 at 07:26 PDT, approximately 18% of projects
sending requests to GCS Signed URLs started receiving HTTP 500 and 503
responses. The majority of the errors occurred from 07:25 to 10:34 PDT. From
10:34 the number of affected projects decreased, and by 11:25 PDT fewer than
2% of Signed URL requests were receiving errors. A small number of projects
encountered continued errors until remediation was completed at 20:38.

There was no disruption to any GCS functionality that did not involve Signed
URLs.

ROOT CAUSE

GCS Signed URLs are cryptographically signed by the owner of the stored data,
using the private key of a Google Cloud Platform service account. The private
key is known only to the owner, but the corresponding public key is retained
by Google and used to verify the URL signatures.

Within Google, similar service accounts are used for many internal
authentication purposes. (For example, these accounts include the default
service account which internally represents the customer's Cloud Platform
project.) For these service accounts, Google retains both the public and the
private key. These keypairs have a short lifetime and are frequently
regenerated.

All keys are managed in a central, strongly hardened security module. As part
of an effort to simplify the key management system, prior to the incident, a
configuration change was pushed which mistakenly caused the security module to
consider customers' service accounts as candidates for automatic keypair
management. This change was later rolled back, removing the service accounts
from automatic management, but some customers' service accounts had already
received new keypairs with finite lifetimes. Accounts with heavy Signed URL
usage were more likely to be affected.

On 07:25 PDT on Wednesday 26 August, the lifetimes of the temporary keypairs
for affected accounts began to expire. Since the expired keypairs were not
automatically removed as the service account were no longer under automatic
management, it's presence was treated as an error by the Signed URL
verification process, causing all Signed URL requests for the service account
to fail.

At no time during this incident were any keys at risk and they remain safe and
secure. No action is required by customers.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Automated monitoring signalled the issue at 07:33. Google engineers identified
the need to remove the expired keys, which required manual access to the
security module. This is protected by multiple security procedures, by design,
so it required several escalations to get the correct people. Access was
gained at 10:34 PDT, and thereafter service was progressively restored as each
service account was reactivated by removing its expired keys.

To eliminate the immediate cause of the issue, Google engineers are modifying
the URL signature verifier to be more robust when it encounters expired keys.

To avoid various related classes of errors, Google engineers are increasing
the testing performed on configuration changes for the security system, both
to strengthen consistency and to ensure that configuration changes do not
induce unexpected side effects.

In case of other future issues with the security module, Google engineers are
streamlining internal escalation procedures to improve response times, and
upgrading tools for more efficient key administration.  
  
| Aug 26, 2015 | 17:59 |

The issue with GCS XML signed URLs should be resolved for vast majority of
projects and traffic as of 11:25 US/Pacific and we are working to fix the
issue for the 0.02% remaining traffic. We will provide provide a written
Incident Report within 24 hours.  
  
|

The issue with GCS XML signed URLs should be resolved for vast majority of
projects and traffic as of 11:25 US/Pacific and we are working to fix the
issue for the 0.02% remaining traffic. We will provide provide a written
Incident Report within 24 hours.  
  
| Aug 26, 2015 | 15:50 |

We are still actively working on fully resolving the issue with GCS XML signed
URLs returning HTTP 500 errors. Current data indicates that less than 0.009%
of requests using XML signed URLs are still affected by this issue. We will
provide another status update by 17:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still actively working on fully resolving the issue with GCS XML signed
URLs returning HTTP 500 errors. Current data indicates that less than 0.009%
of requests using XML signed URLs are still affected by this issue. We will
provide another status update by 17:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Aug 26, 2015 | 14:22 |

We are still working on fully resolving the issue with GCS XML signed URLs
returning HTTP 500 errors and expecting for a full resolution in the near
future. Current data indicates that less than 0.1% of requests using XML
signed URLs are affected by this issue. We will provide another status update
by 15:15 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still working on fully resolving the issue with GCS XML signed URLs
returning HTTP 500 errors and expecting for a full resolution in the near
future. Current data indicates that less than 0.1% of requests using XML
signed URLs are affected by this issue. We will provide another status update
by 15:15 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Aug 26, 2015 | 13:19 |

We are still working on fully resolving the issue with GCS XML signed URLs
returning HTTP 500 errors. Current data indicates that less than 0.2% of
requests using XML signed URLs are affected by this issue. We will provide
another status update by 14:15 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still working on fully resolving the issue with GCS XML signed URLs
returning HTTP 500 errors. Current data indicates that less than 0.2% of
requests using XML signed URLs are affected by this issue. We will provide
another status update by 14:15 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Aug 26, 2015 | 12:16 |

The issue with GCS XML signed URLs returning HTTP 500 errors should be
resolved for the majority of projects and we expect a full resolution in the
near future. Current data indicates that less than 0.2% of requests are
affected by this issue. We will provide another status update by 13:15
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

The issue with GCS XML signed URLs returning HTTP 500 errors should be
resolved for the majority of projects and we expect a full resolution in the
near future. Current data indicates that less than 0.2% of requests are
affected by this issue. We will provide another status update by 13:15
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Aug 26, 2015 | 11:32 |

Error rates for GCS XML signed URL requests have fallen to 1%. We are working
to resolve the issue for the remaining impacted customers. We will provide
another status update by 12:15 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

Error rates for GCS XML signed URL requests have fallen to 1%. We are working
to resolve the issue for the remaining impacted customers. We will provide
another status update by 12:15 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Aug 26, 2015 | 10:45 |

Our engineers have determined the cause of the GCS XML API signed URL issue
and are applying a fix. Current data indicates that 5% of XML API requests
remain affected by this issue. We will provide another status update by 11:30
US/Pacific with further details.  
  
|

Our engineers have determined the cause of the GCS XML API signed URL issue
and are applying a fix. Current data indicates that 5% of XML API requests
remain affected by this issue. We will provide another status update by 11:30
US/Pacific with further details.  
  
| Aug 26, 2015 | 10:11 |

We have identified that the Google Cloud Storage XML API errors are limited to
requests authorized by signed URLs [1]. We are continuing to investigate and
will provide another status update by 10:45 US/Pacific with current details.

[1] <https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/access-control?hl=en#Signed-URLs>  
  
|

We have identified that the Google Cloud Storage XML API errors are limited to
requests authorized by signed URLs [1]. We are continuing to investigate and
will provide another status update by 10:45 US/Pacific with current details.

[1] <https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/access-control?hl=en#Signed-URLs>  
  
| Aug 26, 2015 | 09:36 |

Errors on the Google Cloud Storage XML API are continuing; current data
indicates that between 30% and 35% of XML API requests are affected by this
issue. We are continuing to investigate and will provide another status update
by 10:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

Errors on the Google Cloud Storage XML API are continuing; current data
indicates that between 30% and 35% of XML API requests are affected by this
issue. We are continuing to investigate and will provide another status update
by 10:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Aug 26, 2015 | 08:50 |

The issue with errors on the Google Cloud Storage XML API should be resolved
for the majority of users and we expect a full resolution in the near future.
We will provide another status update by 09:30 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

The issue with errors on the Google Cloud Storage XML API should be resolved
for the majority of users and we expect a full resolution in the near future.
We will provide another status update by 09:30 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Aug 26, 2015 | 08:30 |

We are still investigating the issue with requests to the Google Cloud Storage
XML API. We will provide another status update by 09:00 US/Pacific time.  
  
|

We are still investigating the issue with requests to the Google Cloud Storage
XML API. We will provide another status update by 09:00 US/Pacific time.  
  
| Aug 26, 2015 | 08:09 |

There is an elevated error rate on the XML API to Google Cloud Storage.
Affected users observe HTTP 500 or other 50x responses to XML API requests.

We will provide a further update by 08:30 US/Pacific time.  
  
|

There is an elevated error rate on the XML API to Google Cloud Storage.
Affected users observe HTTP 500 or other 50x responses to XML API requests.

We will provide a further update by 08:30 US/Pacific time.  
  
| Aug 26, 2015 | 08:00 |

We are experiencing an issue with the XML API to Google Cloud Storage. The
issue started at 07:27 US/Pacific time. We will provide a further update by
08:00.  
  
|

We are experiencing an issue with the XML API to Google Cloud Storage. The
issue started at 07:27 US/Pacific time. We will provide a further update by
08:00.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

