# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

February 03, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Cloud Storage](/incident/storage/16027)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Cloud Storage Incident #16027

High error rate of requests to Google Cloud Storage

Incident began at **2015-08-08 20:22** and ended at **2015-08-08 22:50** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Aug 10, 2015 | 23:10 |

SUMMARY:

On Saturday 8 August 2015, Google Cloud Storage served an elevated error rate
for a duration of 139 minutes. If your service or application was affected, we
apologize. We have taken an initial set of actions to prevent recurrence of
the problem, and have a larger set of changes which will provide defense in
depth currently under review by the engineering teams.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Saturday 8 August 2015 from 20:21 to 22:40 PDT, Google Cloud Storage
returned a high rate of error responses to queries. The average error rate
during this time was 28.4%, with an initial peak of 47% at 20:27. Error levels
gradually decreased subsequently, with intermediate periods of normal
operation from 21:46-21:54 and 22:04-22:10. Usage was equally affected across
the Google Cloud Storage XML and JSON APIs.

ROOT CAUSE:

The elevated GCS error rate was induced by a large increase in traffic
compared to normal levels. The traffic surge was exacerbated by retries from
software clients receiving errors. The GCS errors were principally served to
the sources which were generating the unusual traffic levels, but a fraction
of the errors were served to other users as well.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

Google engineers were alerted to the elevated error rate by automated
monitoring, and took steps to both reduce the impact and to increase capacity
to mitigate the duration and severity of the incident for GCS users. In
parallel, Google’s support team contacted the system owners which were
generating the bulk of unexpected traffic, and helped them reduce their
demand. The combination of these two actions resolved the incident.

To prevent a potential future recurrence, Google’s engineering team have made
or are making a number of changes to GCS, including:

  * Adding traffic rate ‘collaring’ to prevent unexpected surges in demand from exceeding sustainable levels;

  * Adding or improving caching at multiple levels in order to increase capacity, and increase resilience to repetitive queries;

  * Changing RPC queuing behavior in GCS to provide more capacity and more graceful handling of overload.

  
|

SUMMARY:

On Saturday 8 August 2015, Google Cloud Storage served an elevated error rate
for a duration of 139 minutes. If your service or application was affected, we
apologize. We have taken an initial set of actions to prevent recurrence of
the problem, and have a larger set of changes which will provide defense in
depth currently under review by the engineering teams.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT:

On Saturday 8 August 2015 from 20:21 to 22:40 PDT, Google Cloud Storage
returned a high rate of error responses to queries. The average error rate
during this time was 28.4%, with an initial peak of 47% at 20:27. Error levels
gradually decreased subsequently, with intermediate periods of normal
operation from 21:46-21:54 and 22:04-22:10. Usage was equally affected across
the Google Cloud Storage XML and JSON APIs.

ROOT CAUSE:

The elevated GCS error rate was induced by a large increase in traffic
compared to normal levels. The traffic surge was exacerbated by retries from
software clients receiving errors. The GCS errors were principally served to
the sources which were generating the unusual traffic levels, but a fraction
of the errors were served to other users as well.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION:

Google engineers were alerted to the elevated error rate by automated
monitoring, and took steps to both reduce the impact and to increase capacity
to mitigate the duration and severity of the incident for GCS users. In
parallel, Google’s support team contacted the system owners which were
generating the bulk of unexpected traffic, and helped them reduce their
demand. The combination of these two actions resolved the incident.

To prevent a potential future recurrence, Google’s engineering team have made
or are making a number of changes to GCS, including:

  * Adding traffic rate ‘collaring’ to prevent unexpected surges in demand from exceeding sustainable levels;

  * Adding or improving caching at multiple levels in order to increase capacity, and increase resilience to repetitive queries;

  * Changing RPC queuing behavior in GCS to provide more capacity and more graceful handling of overload.

  
| Aug 08, 2015 | 23:03 |

The issue with Google Cloud Storage should be resolved for all affected
projects as of 22:50 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of
this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or
minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this
incident once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
|

The issue with Google Cloud Storage should be resolved for all affected
projects as of 22:50 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of
this issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to prevent or
minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this
incident once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
| Aug 08, 2015 | 22:29 |

We are still investigating the issue with Google Cloud Storage. Current data
indicates that the error rate is improving for most projects affected by this
issue. We will provide another status update by 23:00 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

We are still investigating the issue with Google Cloud Storage. Current data
indicates that the error rate is improving for most projects affected by this
issue. We will provide another status update by 23:00 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Aug 08, 2015 | 22:03 |

We are investigating reports of an issue with Google Cloud Storage. We will
provide more information by 22:30 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating reports of an issue with Google Cloud Storage. We will
provide more information by 22:30 US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

