# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

September 08, 2019  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Cloud Storage](/incident/storage/18003)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Cloud Storage Incident #18003

Increased error rate for Google Cloud Storage

Incident began at **2018-09-04 02:55** and ended at **2018-09-04 12:50** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Sep 07, 2018 | 20:00 |

# ISSUE SUMMARY

On Tuesday 4 September 2018, Google Cloud Storage experienced 1.1% error rates
and increased 99th percentile latency for US multiregion buckets for a
duration of 5 hours 38 minutes. After that time some customers experienced
0.1% error rates which returned to normal progressively over the subsequent 4
hours. To our Google Cloud Storage customers whose businesses were impacted
during this incident, we sincerely apologize; this is not the level of tail-
end latency and reliability we strive to offer you. We are taking immediate
steps to improve the platform’s performance and availability.

# DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Tuesday 4 September 2018 from 02:55 to 08:33 PDT, customers with buckets
located in the US multiregion experienced a 1.066% error rate and 4.9x
increased 99th percentile latency, with the peak effect occurring between
05:00 PDT and 07:30 PDT for write-heavy workloads. At 08:33 PDT 99th
percentile latency decreased to 1.4x normal levels and error rates decreased,
initially to 0.146% and then subsequently to nominal levels by 12:50 PDT.

# ROOT CAUSE

At the beginning of August, Google Cloud Storage deployed a new feature which
among other things prefetched and cached the location of some internal
metadata. On Monday 3rd September 18:45 PDT, a change in the underlying
metadata storage system resulted in increased load to that subsystem, which
eventually invalidated some cached metadata for US multiregion buckets. This
meant that requests for that metadata experienced increased latency, or
returned an error if the backend RPC timed out. This additional load on
metadata lookups led to elevated error rates and latency as described above.

# REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google Cloud Storage SREs were alerted automatically once error rates had
risen materially above nominal levels. Additional SRE teams were involved as
soon as the metadata storage system was identified as a likely root cause of
the incident. In order to mitigate the incident, the keyspace that was
suffering degraded performance needed to be identified and isolated so that it
could be given additional resources. This work completed by the 4th September
08:33 PDT. In parallel, Google Cloud Storage SREs pursued the source of
additional load on the metadata storage system and traced it to cache
invalidations.

In order to prevent this type of incident from occurring again in the future,
we will expand our load testing to ensure that performance degradations are
detected prior to reaching production. We will improve our monitoring
diagnostics to ensure that we more rapidly pinpoint the source of performance
degradation. The metadata prefetching algorithm will be changed to introduce
randomness and further reduce the chance of creating excessive load on the
underlying storage system. Finally, we plan to enhance the storage system to
reduce the time needed to identify, isolate, and mitigate load concentration
such as that resulting from cache invalidations.  
  
|

# ISSUE SUMMARY

On Tuesday 4 September 2018, Google Cloud Storage experienced 1.1% error rates
and increased 99th percentile latency for US multiregion buckets for a
duration of 5 hours 38 minutes. After that time some customers experienced
0.1% error rates which returned to normal progressively over the subsequent 4
hours. To our Google Cloud Storage customers whose businesses were impacted
during this incident, we sincerely apologize; this is not the level of tail-
end latency and reliability we strive to offer you. We are taking immediate
steps to improve the platform’s performance and availability.

# DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

On Tuesday 4 September 2018 from 02:55 to 08:33 PDT, customers with buckets
located in the US multiregion experienced a 1.066% error rate and 4.9x
increased 99th percentile latency, with the peak effect occurring between
05:00 PDT and 07:30 PDT for write-heavy workloads. At 08:33 PDT 99th
percentile latency decreased to 1.4x normal levels and error rates decreased,
initially to 0.146% and then subsequently to nominal levels by 12:50 PDT.

# ROOT CAUSE

At the beginning of August, Google Cloud Storage deployed a new feature which
among other things prefetched and cached the location of some internal
metadata. On Monday 3rd September 18:45 PDT, a change in the underlying
metadata storage system resulted in increased load to that subsystem, which
eventually invalidated some cached metadata for US multiregion buckets. This
meant that requests for that metadata experienced increased latency, or
returned an error if the backend RPC timed out. This additional load on
metadata lookups led to elevated error rates and latency as described above.

# REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

Google Cloud Storage SREs were alerted automatically once error rates had
risen materially above nominal levels. Additional SRE teams were involved as
soon as the metadata storage system was identified as a likely root cause of
the incident. In order to mitigate the incident, the keyspace that was
suffering degraded performance needed to be identified and isolated so that it
could be given additional resources. This work completed by the 4th September
08:33 PDT. In parallel, Google Cloud Storage SREs pursued the source of
additional load on the metadata storage system and traced it to cache
invalidations.

In order to prevent this type of incident from occurring again in the future,
we will expand our load testing to ensure that performance degradations are
detected prior to reaching production. We will improve our monitoring
diagnostics to ensure that we more rapidly pinpoint the source of performance
degradation. The metadata prefetching algorithm will be changed to introduce
randomness and further reduce the chance of creating excessive load on the
underlying storage system. Finally, we plan to enhance the storage system to
reduce the time needed to identify, isolate, and mitigate load concentration
such as that resulting from cache invalidations.  
  
| Sep 04, 2018 | 15:56 |

The issue with Google Cloud Storage errors on requests to US multiregional
buckets has been resolved for all affected users as of Tuesday, 2018-09-04
12:52 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and
make appropriate improvements to our systems to help prevent or minimize
future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this incident
once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
|

The issue with Google Cloud Storage errors on requests to US multiregional
buckets has been resolved for all affected users as of Tuesday, 2018-09-04
12:52 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this issue and
make appropriate improvements to our systems to help prevent or minimize
future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this incident
once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
| Sep 04, 2018 | 15:14 |

The mitigation efforts have further decreased the error rates to less than 1%
of requests. We are still seeing intermittent spikes but these are less
frequent. We expect a full resolution in the near future. We will provide
another status update by Tuesday, 2018-09-04 16:15 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

The mitigation efforts have further decreased the error rates to less than 1%
of requests. We are still seeing intermittent spikes but these are less
frequent. We expect a full resolution in the near future. We will provide
another status update by Tuesday, 2018-09-04 16:15 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
| Sep 04, 2018 | 13:56 |

We are rolling out a potential fix to mitigate this issue. Impact is
intermittent but limited to US Multiregional Cloud Storage Buckets buckets. We
will provide another status update by Tuesday, 2018-09-04 15:30 US/Pacific
with current details.  
  
|

We are rolling out a potential fix to mitigate this issue. Impact is
intermittent but limited to US Multiregional Cloud Storage Buckets buckets. We
will provide another status update by Tuesday, 2018-09-04 15:30 US/Pacific
with current details.  
  
| Sep 04, 2018 | 12:54 |

Mitigation is still ongoing but the error rates are decreasing. Latency in the
90th percentile have returned to normal levels but for the 99th percentile <1%
of requests are still seeing increased latency. We will provide another status
update by Tuesday, 2018-09-04 14:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

Mitigation is still ongoing but the error rates are decreasing. Latency in the
90th percentile have returned to normal levels but for the 99th percentile <1%
of requests are still seeing increased latency. We will provide another status
update by Tuesday, 2018-09-04 14:00 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Sep 04, 2018 | 11:07 |

We are still seeing intermittent errors and latency on some requests. Our
Engineering Team is investigating the root cause and pursuing additional
mitigation. We will provide another status update by Tuesday, 2018-09-04 12:45
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

We are still seeing intermittent errors and latency on some requests. Our
Engineering Team is investigating the root cause and pursuing additional
mitigation. We will provide another status update by Tuesday, 2018-09-04 12:45
US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Sep 04, 2018 | 09:49 |

Temporary mitigation efforts have significantly reduced the error rate but we
are still seeing intermittent errors or latency on requests. Full resolution
efforts are still ongoing. We will provide another status update by Tuesday,
2018-09-04 11:15 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
|

Temporary mitigation efforts have significantly reduced the error rate but we
are still seeing intermittent errors or latency on requests. Full resolution
efforts are still ongoing. We will provide another status update by Tuesday,
2018-09-04 11:15 US/Pacific with current details.  
  
| Sep 04, 2018 | 08:44 |

Mitigation efforts are starting to become effective and the rate of errors is
decreasing, we are continuing to monitor and apply mitigation where necessary.
Current data indicates that a small percentage of requests in the US region
only are affected. Further updates will be provided by Tuesday, 2018-09-04
10:00 US/Pacific.  
  
|

Mitigation efforts are starting to become effective and the rate of errors is
decreasing, we are continuing to monitor and apply mitigation where necessary.
Current data indicates that a small percentage of requests in the US region
only are affected. Further updates will be provided by Tuesday, 2018-09-04
10:00 US/Pacific.  
  
| Sep 04, 2018 | 08:01 |

Mitigation work is currently underway by our Engineering Team. Current data
indicates that a small percentage of requests in the US region only are
affected. Further updates will be provided by Tuesday, 2018-09-04 08:45
US/Pacific.  
  
|

Mitigation work is currently underway by our Engineering Team. Current data
indicates that a small percentage of requests in the US region only are
affected. Further updates will be provided by Tuesday, 2018-09-04 08:45
US/Pacific.  
  
| Sep 04, 2018 | 07:00 |

We are still seeing intermittent errors for requests to Google Cloud Storage
in the US region. Our Engineering Team is continuing mitigation work. We will
provide another status update by Tuesday, 2018-09-04 08:00 US/Pacific with
current details.  
  
|

We are still seeing intermittent errors for requests to Google Cloud Storage
in the US region. Our Engineering Team is continuing mitigation work. We will
provide another status update by Tuesday, 2018-09-04 08:00 US/Pacific with
current details.  
  
| Sep 04, 2018 | 06:38 |

We are seeing intermittent errors for requests to Google Cloud Storage in the
US region. Our Engineering Team is continuing mitigation work. We will provide
another status update by Tuesday, 2018-09-04 07:00 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
|

We are seeing intermittent errors for requests to Google Cloud Storage in the
US region. Our Engineering Team is continuing mitigation work. We will provide
another status update by Tuesday, 2018-09-04 07:00 US/Pacific with current
details.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()
  * [About](https://cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard)

  *  

