# [![Google Cloud Platform](//cloud.google.com/_static/images/new-gcp-
logo.png)](//cloud.google.com)

October 19, 2018  All services available

  * [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)
  * [Incidents](/summary)
  * [Google Cloud Storage](/incident/storage/17005)

# [Google Cloud Status Dashboard](/)

This page provides status information on the services that are part of Google
Cloud Platform. Check back here to view the current status of the services
listed below. If you are experiencing an issue not listed here, please
[contact Support](//cloud.google.com/support/). Learn more about what's posted
on the dashboard in [ this FAQ](//cloud.google.com/support/docs/dashboard).
For additional information on these services, please visit
[cloud.google.com](//cloud.google.com).

# Google Cloud Storage Incident #17005

Elevated GCS Errors from Canada

Incident began at **2017-10-12 12:47** and ended at **2017-10-13 10:12** (all
times are **US/Pacific** ).

| Date | Time | Description  
---|---|---|---  
| Oct 19, 2017 | 12:49 |

ISSUE SUMMARY

Starting Thursday 12 October 2017, Google Cloud Storage clients located in the
Northeast of North America experienced up to a 10% error rate for a duration
of 21 hours and 35 minutes when fetching objects stored in multi-regional
buckets in the US.

We apologize for the impact of this incident on your application or service.
The reliability of our service is a top priority and we understand that we
need to do better to ensure that incidents of this type do not recur.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

Between Thursday 12 October 2017 12:47 PDT and Friday 13 October 2017 10:12
PDT, Google Cloud Storage clients located in the Northeast of North America
experienced up to a 10% rate of 503 errors and elevated latency. Some users
experienced higher error rates for brief periods. This incident only impacted
requests to fetch objects stored in multi-regional buckets in the US; clients
were able to mitigate impact by retrying. The percentage of total global
requests to Cloud Storage that experienced errors was 0.03%.

ROOT CAUSE

Google ensures balanced use of its internal networks by throttling outbound
traffic at the source host in the event of congestion. This incident was
caused by a bug in an earlier version of the job that reads Cloud Storage
objects from disk and streams data to clients. Under high traffic conditions,
the bug caused these jobs to incorrectly throttle outbound network traffic
even though the network was not congested.

Google had previously identified this bug and was in the process of rolling
out a fix to all Google datacenters. At the time of the incident, Cloud
Storage jobs in a datacenter in Northeast North America that serves requests
to some Canadian and US clients had not yet received the fix. This datacenter
is not a location for customer buckets
(https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/bucket-locations), but objects in
multi-regional buckets can be served from instances running in this datacenter
in order to optimize latency for clients.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

The incident was first reported by a customer to Google on Thursday 12 October
14:59 PDT. Google engineers determined root cause on Friday 13 October 09:47
PDT. We redirected Cloud Storage traffic away from the impacted region at
10:08 and the incident was resolved at 10:12.

We have now rolled out the bug fix to all regions. We will also add external
monitoring probes for all regional points of presence so that we can more
quickly detect issues of this type.  
  
|

ISSUE SUMMARY

Starting Thursday 12 October 2017, Google Cloud Storage clients located in the
Northeast of North America experienced up to a 10% error rate for a duration
of 21 hours and 35 minutes when fetching objects stored in multi-regional
buckets in the US.

We apologize for the impact of this incident on your application or service.
The reliability of our service is a top priority and we understand that we
need to do better to ensure that incidents of this type do not recur.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF IMPACT

Between Thursday 12 October 2017 12:47 PDT and Friday 13 October 2017 10:12
PDT, Google Cloud Storage clients located in the Northeast of North America
experienced up to a 10% rate of 503 errors and elevated latency. Some users
experienced higher error rates for brief periods. This incident only impacted
requests to fetch objects stored in multi-regional buckets in the US; clients
were able to mitigate impact by retrying. The percentage of total global
requests to Cloud Storage that experienced errors was 0.03%.

ROOT CAUSE

Google ensures balanced use of its internal networks by throttling outbound
traffic at the source host in the event of congestion. This incident was
caused by a bug in an earlier version of the job that reads Cloud Storage
objects from disk and streams data to clients. Under high traffic conditions,
the bug caused these jobs to incorrectly throttle outbound network traffic
even though the network was not congested.

Google had previously identified this bug and was in the process of rolling
out a fix to all Google datacenters. At the time of the incident, Cloud
Storage jobs in a datacenter in Northeast North America that serves requests
to some Canadian and US clients had not yet received the fix. This datacenter
is not a location for customer buckets
(https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/bucket-locations), but objects in
multi-regional buckets can be served from instances running in this datacenter
in order to optimize latency for clients.

REMEDIATION AND PREVENTION

The incident was first reported by a customer to Google on Thursday 12 October
14:59 PDT. Google engineers determined root cause on Friday 13 October 09:47
PDT. We redirected Cloud Storage traffic away from the impacted region at
10:08 and the incident was resolved at 10:12.

We have now rolled out the bug fix to all regions. We will also add external
monitoring probes for all regional points of presence so that we can more
quickly detect issues of this type.  
  
| Oct 13, 2017 | 10:08 |

The issue with Google Cloud Storage request failures for users in Canada and
Northeast North America has been resolved for all affected users as of Friday,
2017-10-13 10:08 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this
issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to help prevent or
minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this
incident once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
|

The issue with Google Cloud Storage request failures for users in Canada and
Northeast North America has been resolved for all affected users as of Friday,
2017-10-13 10:08 US/Pacific. We will conduct an internal investigation of this
issue and make appropriate improvements to our systems to help prevent or
minimize future recurrence. We will provide a more detailed analysis of this
incident once we have completed our internal investigation.  
  
| Oct 13, 2017 | 09:31 |

We are investigating an issue with Google Cloud Storage users in Canada and
Northeast North America experiencing HTTP 503 failures. We will provide more
information by 10:30 US/Pacific.  
  
|

We are investigating an issue with Google Cloud Storage users in Canada and
Northeast North America experiencing HTTP 503 failures. We will provide more
information by 10:30 US/Pacific.  
  
  * All times are US/Pacific
  * [Send Feedback]()

  *  

